This noir may not be the best remembered film from the era, but it features a great mystery plot, the common noir atmosphere and some good performances from its lesser known cast members. Robert Siodmak, the talented director behind the mystery/horror classic 'The Spiral Staircase' directed this film two years earlier than the aforementioned film, and shows a real flair for creating a dark and brooding atmosphere as well as creating a plot that both intrigues and fascinates the viewer. Phantom Lady focuses on Scott Henderson; a man married to a woman he doesn't like. He picks up a lady in a big hat in a bar one night, and the two agree to a 'no strings attached' night of fun. However, he then returns home to find his apartment infested by police officers and soon finds out that the reason they are there is because his wife has been strangled with one of his neck ties! He's dismayed to find that no one he saw while with the mysterious woman can remember her, and naturally the jury sends him down for the murder of his wife. However, luckily for him his beautiful female employee gets on the case...<br /><br />The plot moves along nicely throughout, and unlike many of the better known noirs, this one features a few murders which make the proceedings more interesting. In fact, if it wasn't for the fact that it was made in the forties and shot in black and white, I would swear Phantom Lady was an Italian Giallo! The central characters are all interesting enough, with Alan Curtis providing a good portrayal of the unfortunate victim, and Ella Raines being effective as the female impromptu detective. The real standout of the film, however, is Franchot Tone, who provides a memorable performance as the insane villain of the piece. The film also features a role for supporting actor extraordinaire Elisha Cook Jr, who features playing the drums in the film's most memorable segment. If I was to criticise this film, I would say that the identity of the murderer is revealed a little too early - although Phantom Lady does deserve some credit on that front for the original way it goes about it. The conclusion is satisfying and everything makes sense (which is amazing considering the unlikely plot line) and overall, Phantom Lady is surely one of the greatest and most under-seen noirs ever made!