Ealing Studios, a television and film production company based in West London, claims to be the oldest film studio in the world. Though it has been consistently churning out films and television programmes since the 1930s, its golden age was most certainly between 1948 and 1955, when it produced a string of comedy masterpieces, many starring the great Alec Guinness. Such well-known titles include 'Whisky Galore! (1949),' 'Passport to Pimlico (1949),' 'Kind Hearts and Coronets (1949),' 'The Lavender Hill Mob (1951),' 'The Titfield Thunderbolt (1953)' and 'The Ladykillers (1955).' One of Ealing Studio's most beloved films, 'The Man in the White Suit,' was released in 1951, and starred Alec Guiness as Sidney Stratton, a brilliant inventor who engineers a remarkable fabric, an invention that unexpectedly makes him more enemies than friends.<br /><br />Sidney Stratton is poor and unappreciated, but he has scientific talent in great abundance. Due to his under-qualification, the only jobs he is able to get are as a janitor or labourer at any of the large textile factories, where he secretly undertakes his own experiments using the company's own money and equipment. After being found out and ejected countless times, Sidney is convinced that he is only weeks away from a momentous scientific discovery that will revolutionise the textiles industry. Encouraged by his daughter Daphne (Joan Greenwood), textile mill owner Alan Birnley (Cecil Parker) takes a keen interest in Sidney's exploits and agrees to finance any further work. After numerous failed attempts and quite a few earth-shattering explosions, Sidney eventually unveils his amazing creation: an almost-luminous white fabric that never gets dirty and never wears out.<br /><br />If Sidney thought that his invention would make him a hero, then he was sorely disappointed. The all-powerful bosses of textiles industry, headed by the frail Sir John Kierlaw (Ernest Thesiger), unite to ensure that the revolutionary invention, which could completely cripple their businesses, never goes into full-scale production. Likewise, the humble labourers in the workers' union hear of Sidney's creation and also set out to erase it from existence, fearing for their jobs. The inventor, however, is convinced that the ever-lasting fabric will bring relief and happiness to many, and refuses to give in to the demand of others, despite being threatened with violence and offered ₤250,000 in compensation. Throughout all his troubles to announce his invention to the media, only one person offers Sidney her complete sympathy and support, Birnley's daughter Daphne, who is engaged to be married to somebody else but falls in love with Sidney's plight anyway.<br /><br />'The Man in the White Suit' is a clever and hilarious comedy, made great by a witty script (written by John Dighton, Roger MacDougall and director Alexander Mackendrick) and a quirky and charismatic performance from an inimitable Alec Guinness. There are also a few good-natured swipes at capitalism, and of how big industries can hold back progress for the sake of their own monetary situations, though we can certainly see the arguments for either side of the debate.