The original theatrical trailer calls James Cagney's portrayal of Marty 'The Gimp' Snyder an 'aggressive characterization'. However it's one thing to see Cagney as a gritty mobster in films like "Public Enemy" and "White Heat" where his aggression is expressed as an enemy of society. Here he seems an even more threatening presence in a one on one situation with his protégé Ruth Etting (Doris Day), a torch singer who got her start in 1920's era Chicago. It's such an effective performance that for once, I almost began to dislike him as an actor, which probably goes a long way to explain just how amazing he actually was.<br /><br />The film also keeps you a bit off balance, as the drama and personal turmoil between Ruth and Marty is offset by a whole host of musical numbers during Etting's rise to stardom. Acting as her mentor and personal manager, Snyder gets it almost right when he states "Why just have half of Chicago when she can have all of New York", as he lands Etting a gig with the Ziegfield Follies. Leaving Chicago however is the beginning of the end for the couple, as Snyder's power and influence mean nothing outside his home territory. Rebuffed by business managers and show people, Marty's comeuppance spells disaster, ultimately leading to the movie's title song finale to a packed house. In one last recognition of the impact Marty had on her career, Ruth repays the favor by headlining his new club, allowing him at least one more turn in the spotlight.<br /><br />It's unusual to see Doris Day in the role of Ruth Etting, one associates her with lighter and more whimsical screen characters, but she's effective here nonetheless. Her song numbers reflect the progress of Etting's career and her relationship with Marty with titles like 'Ten Cents a Dance', 'Mean To Me', 'I'll Never Stop Loving You', and in the wind up, 'Love Me Or Leave Me'. It's not your typical 'feel good' story by the time it's all over, nor does it try to be. One thing is certain though, and that's the sentiment expressed to Marty Snyder just before the curtain falls - "You gotta give her credit, the girl can sing..."