What can I say about this movie that hasn't already been said, so how 'bout some background information. If you're up on your Hollywood History, you know that many stars who were chosen for a film were replaced for certain reasons, but if Jasmes Cagney had not been under suspension at Warners, he would have played Robin Hood instead of Errol Flynn. Barbra Streisand originally wanted Elvis Presley for her version of A Star Is Born and he would have been great and the film would have been a lot better, but the Colonel wouldn't have it. Judy Garland originally wanted Cary Grant for A Star Is Born and personally, I think he would have far better in the role of Norman Main. After Judy Garland was fired from Annie Get Your Gun, the first person that they wanted to play Annie was Betty Garrett, but because of her an-gent she lost out having the role of a lifetime in the movies, and after this happened, Betty Garble wanted to play Annie in the worst way, but 20th Century wouldn't lend her out, so finally after seeing Betty Hutton in The Perils of Pauline, she was hired to play Annie. Originally, Audrey Hepburn was the not the first choice for Breakfast at Tiffany's, instead they wanted Marily Monroe, and she would have been great, but her schedule wouldn't allow, and many others lost out to roles like these did. So, what does this have to do with Love Me Or Leave Me. In Jane Russells Autobiograpy she said that she was offered the part of Ruth Etting but had a choice between that project and another and her an-gent kept telling her, "Do Love Me Or Leave Me", but in the long run Doris Day was given the role. Personally, I can see Jane Russell playing Ruth Etting to the hilt. She would have been great. She would have matched Cagny scene for scene and been up to Cagney and his scene stealing, and she could have sung those songs, but, alas, Doris Day got the role and in the long run set her up at Metro for many years into the future! We're very proud of our Doris Kapplehoff, Price Hill girl, from here in Cincinnati, Ohio!