Wow--this is one strange and inspired comedy that is so unlike any other I can think of! Meryl Streep and Goldie Hawn play aging childhood friends who grow to absolutely hate each other. Both are shallow and vain and both feel 100% in the right for hating the other. The awfulness of their relationship culminates in Meryl stealing away Goldie's husband--just because she COULD! Years pass and Meryl is a fabulously wealthy actress--who STILL down deep is vain and self-centered. Back comes the previously fat and unattractive Goldie but instead, she is thin and looks even younger than she looked decades ago! It looks as if she went to the greatest plastic surgeons in the world and said "here's a million bucks--gimme the works!!". Goldie is back to rub in her good looks and also to steal back wayward hubby Bruce Willis--not because she even wants him but because she CAN! Well, Meryl is worried about losing her man but she's much more upset because Goldie looks so much better than her! So worried that she goes to a strange witch-like lady (Isabella Rosselini) who tells her she has a magic substance that can give her eternal youth!! Despite the cost, the vain lady gladly pays and drinks the formula--and immediately feels the wonderful effects.<br /><br />When she arrives at home, there is Goldie and Bruce to finish their plan--which is to kill Meryl and leave! Well, here is where the movie and special effects get REALLY, REALLY weird. Meryl is shoved down the steps and obviously breaks her neck. Goldie and Bruce are celebrating as Meryl wakes up and is alive--but, her head is on completely backwards!! After a little adjustment, she's back to how she was and the formula was an apparent success! So then she attacks Goldie with a shotgun--blowing her across the room into a fountain. A few moments later, Goldie gets up and walks about with a huge hole in her body--so big you can see right through her!! It's now obvious that she, too, has used the formula! Well, after some more senseless punching and slapping, the fight is over--they really can't kill the other no matter how hard they try. Plus, for some inexplicable reason, they decide to bury the hatchet and become friends again. Now, their immediate goal is to use Bruce's expertise as a plastic surgeon to make them look better--spackling in the hole in Goldie and being ready in case they needed touching up! Bruce has had enough and they try to force his to take the formula and be their permanent fixer-upper! But, despite their efforts and those of the weird little group with the potions, he escapes and vows to never see them again nor use the formula.<br /><br />At this point, the film is wrapping up and the film ends with one of the funniest and visually impressive endings in film history. Instead of elaborating, you just need to see it for yourself.<br /><br />The film has terrific over-the-top performances by Goldie and Meryl and Bruce plays an appropriately creeped out guy who just wants to be left alone!! The script is fresh and funny and provides a lot of amazing laughs. On top of everything, the biggest star are the special effects--amazing and so important to the movie.