This is an excellent Dark comedy that's very funny with 3 amazing performances from Bruce Willis, Meryl Streep and Goldie Hawn!. All the characters are fantastic, and i thought the story was awesome, plus Bruce Willis, Meryl Streep And Goldie Hawn are all simply amazing in this!. Meryl and Goldie seemed to be having a blast here, and It was great To see Bruce ham it up in a different role and he pulled it off perfectly, plus the ending is hilarious!. Streep and Hawn had wonderful chemistry together, and the effects were really awesome, plus The plot was really cool as well!. Sure it's hammy but damn is it a lot of fun to watch, and it's extremely underrated as well, plus the costumes were fantastic!. Meryl truly deserves her reputation as one of the best actresses of all time, and i thought the shovel duel was hilarious, plus the funeral scene at the end was very amusing.I can't believe this only has a 5.6 rating as it should be much higher in my opinion, plus Goldie and Meryl's constant arguing was quite funny. This is is an excellent dark comedy, that's very funny, with 3 amazing performances from Willis, Streep and Hawn, and i say it's a must see for everyone!. The Direction is great!. Robert Zemeckis does a great job here, with awesome camera work, good angles, and keeping the film at a very fast pace!. The Acting is amazing!. Bruce Willis is AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, had a ball watching him Ham it up as a surgeon, had some very funny dialog, had awesome chemistry with Streep and Hawn, looked very funny in those glasses, and just did an amazing job overall, a tough role that he nailed perfectly. (Willis Rules!!!). Meryl Streep is also AMAZING here, she is extremely hilarious, gorgeous, seemed to be having a ball, had some great costumes, was very unpredictable and i just loved her overall, she was amazing. (Streep Rules!!!). Goldie Hawn is also amazing here, she is very beautiful, funny, had some cool facial reactions, was quite bizarre at times, and just rocked overall!. (Goldie rules). Isabella Rossellini was evil, and was quite fun to watch, she was quite interesting.., i liked her lots, even if her character was really bizarre. Rest of the cast do good. Overall a must see for everyone!. ****1/2 out of 5