Okay, I feel I must praise those who have given this film the bad rap it deserves! For starters, I remember getting invited to a special screening for, lets say, six bucks or so. I was expecting to see a wretched pile of bull, but I got something worse than that! I was so sure that having a few union actors such as Savini would give a little depth, or something enjoyable. NOPE! This film was the most pathetic concoction ever put onto film. Loust script, horrid acting, lame effects, and a whole lot of unreal violence that was just stupid to begin with. John Waters' "Pink Flamingos" looks like an early Spielberg classic in comparison, and thats a bad thing. I never had a problem with the Waters exercise in 'poor taste', because there was a message about it, this film, was just stupid. I cannot be more specific than that. Just stupid.<br /><br />Now, it began out with an extremely unbelievable sex scene with Tom Savini and Brinke Stevens. Stevens then retreats to her radio office to conduct a question and answering about zombies. We then see the worst acting of a man and his son hunting zombies, and a tiger is involved...er something. Anyway, a community is under attack with a bunch of idiots running around getting killed one by one. The lead cops are sick and sleazy, and achieve sexual kicks by forcing young males to make love. It is just stupid I tell you! They don't give a crap about civilians. I can understand a filmmakers need to be self-expressive, but there are limits to which art become ridiculous and repetitive. The rest of the story has a lot of bad acting, cheap vomit effects, dreadful dialog, and the STUPIDEST climax to be seen by anyone, be it whoever. My finale plea, is that the filmmakers of this movie need to be banned from writing, directing, or any other type of process in the industry. I thought I was going to see some film that would at least be on its way to a real film-festival...alas, this film was NOTHING! My advice would be to make sure NO ONE ever see's this film again. Then the world would be a better place.<br /><br />I just have to ask...why do these films get made? They're just so dumb, and offer nothing. If someone actually likes them, then they need help!