Based on a Broadway play, ANOTHER LANGUAGE is one of those gems from yesteryear that few have heard of. It has much to recommend it, chiefly: believable and detailed interaction among members of a rather large and unpleasant family, mostly given to self absorption but with moments of genuine compassion and caring that surface unexpectedly. One of the members of this family is Margaret Hamilton (who was in the Broadway original) in one of the few roles that allowed her to enact a somewhat complex human being. Louise Closser Hale is perfectly cast as the controlling, selfish mother who sets the tone for her whole brood. Helen Hayes, a supremely skilled actress who could play ordinary people and make them fascinating, wins the viewer over completely as the bride who runs afoul of her in-laws. I wanted to marry her myself! The standout, however, is young John Beal who delivers a passionate performance as Robert Montgomery's younger brother. ***POSSIBLE SPOILER FOLLOWS*** His character is introduced well after the conflict between Hayes and the family is established. He is appalled that his family is treating Hayes so shabbily and falls madly, dangerously, recklessly in love with her. His vital, fresh-faced, youthful innocence and earnestness captivate the viewer. He too had played the same role in the stage version. This performance might have launched Beal to the top of the Hollywood firmament, but Hollywood didn't suit him, and he settled into a 60-year career of minor films, regional theater and numerous TV roles. Montgomery himself is top notch, as usual, playing the insensitive product of his narrow-minded mother's upbringing. Don't let the conventional opening scene as Hayes and Montgomery disembark from their honeymoon cruise fool you. It gets better fast. The theme is similar to that of HOLIDAY, based on a Philip Barry play, in which a free-spirited outsider clashes with members of his fiancée's stodgy, traditional banking family. Although not cinematically daring in any way, ANOTHER LANGUAGE delivers the emotional goods.