The final series, this time focusing on WWI. Part of what makes this one work so well is that they point out the negatives of war, especially the more traditional battles, so marvelously; the officers are devoid of a sense of reality beyond their comfy chair and desk, the assignments all contain the unwelcome promise of certain and meaningless death, boredom is rampant during a lot of the waiting, and the front runs out of supplies and the substitutions... you don't want to know(not sure why they felt the need to go into such detail about it, much less have so many of that type of jokes, but I digress). Melchett returns, as a stark raving mad superior, adopting the obnoxious, loud behavior of Laurie, and the two, individually or, better yet, together, lead to many an eye-rolling, funny and memorable moment. McInnerny is back, and going by his wish to avoid being typecast as the innocent, and remarkably stupid, Percy, he instead is cast as a slimy rival to Edmund, with the unbelievably(though based on an actual poor bugger) unfortunate surname of "Darling", creating an utterly hilarious running gag. This has a fantastic main group. The verbal, clever, British material is still going strong, immensely so, and this holds numerous of the greatest lines of the franchise. Satire is also magnificent in this, and it comments on more or less every aspect one could think of, relating to the period and situation. The plots are interesting, well-written(as really everything in this) well-thought out, and rather surprising. Acting is all great, and the guests are impeccable, including the always spot-on Richardson. Blackadder himself isn't downright depressing as he was in the third, which is not to say that the bite and snark that we do love so are gone, not by a long shot. Every episode is excellent, and the ending of the final one is beautiful. The comedic timing is flawless. There is silly stuff, in-between the wit. Almost all of it garners deserved laughs. I recommend this warmly to any fan of these shows, Atkinson and this type of humor. 8/10