With most televisions series the quality often declines and the British tradition is to end a series after 2 or 3 seasons. Not so with Blackadder Goes Forth, the best of the Blackadder television comedy.<br /><br />Set during the First World War in 1917, this version of Edmund Blackadder (Rowan Atkinson) is now a Captain of the British Army on the Western Front. He is joined with his trusty moron sidekicks Lieutenant George (Hugh Laurie) and Private Baldrick (Tony Robinson). In the Army headquarters are the idiotic General Melchett (Stephen Fry) and scheming Captain Darling (Tim McInnerny). Throughout the series Blackadder tries his best to avoid being sent over the top, he made it that far. This series looks at many aspects of the war, the growth of popular and army culture, the growth of the air force, the lost of Russia, the use of court-martials, etc...<br /><br />The First World War is an usual subject for comedy, especially because of the massive lost of life and the first time many countries suffers the affects of total war. What the writers Richard Curtis and Ben Elton do is turn the series in a dark comedy, a satire of the affect of the war the lost of live and the leadership of the British army; similar to Stanley Kubrick's masterpiece Dr. Strangelove. Both writers are famous for left-wing, anti-war opinions. The show also tries the mick of the British upper class attitude. The series doesn't dishonest the memory of the soldiers who sufficed their lives for their nation. But the series does poke fun at some historical events and people, like war poetry, the Christmas Truce, the Red Baron and Field Marshall Douglas Haig. The writing is top notch and extremely funny.<br /><br />The actors were on the top of their game. Blackadder and Baldrick are the best characters Atkinson and Robinson had played and are an amazing double act. Blackadder is fantastic as a schemer, whilst Baldrick is excellent as the fool. Hugh Laurie is also a very good comedic actor and his is delightfully naive as George who just sees the war as an adventure. Stephen Fry is also a talented comedian, and is great at satirising the leadership of the British army. Tim McInnerny is excellent as the protagonist of the series. There are great guest stars in the series, such as Rik Mayal, Adrian Edmundson and Miranda Richardson.<br /><br />Blackadder Goes Forth is a classic series with a number of great episodes. The last episode is a much see. This series is essential viewing.