To make a memorable mark in the comedy genre nowadays is quite a difficult thing to do. With movies that recycle the same tasteless toilet humour and clichéd teenage sex antics, comedy is a genre that has slowly been dying in the mainstream for the last decade. Korean comedy veteran Sang-Jin Kim's Attack the Gas Station is a hysterically different take on comedy that doesn't take itself too seriously, but comes through with some seriously entertaining comedy. Before seeing this film for the first time I didn't expect much, from the title and all, but I was very surprised on the humour and direction of Attack the Gas Station.<br /><br />Attack the Gas Station is the wacky story of a "gang" of 4 Korean youths who have a bad case of boredom, so what better to do then rob the local gas station?! After the high of the robbery wears off, the 4 teenagers find themselves right where they were before the robbery, bored. The only solution they can come up with is to rob the gas station again! As the gang attends to the customers to keep all quiet, they realize that instead of just robbing the place, they can make even more money by keeping the money that the patrons give them for pumping their gas! Soon after, a group of high school wannabe thugs come to collect money from one of the gas station employees. After rubbing the robbers the wrong way, our main gang decide to teach the wannabes a lesson, and take them hostage too! Somewhere along the line, their antics lead them to taking a snotty pre-madonna hostage, who's boyfriend just happens to be in the yakuza, and pissing off a highly irritable delivery boy who decides that he isn't going to take it anymore! Aside from the hilarious action that takes place, the film has a nice underlying tone of the gang comically bonding with the now supportive gas station employees as they teach each other to stand up for what they believe in and cooperate to take down what soon will be slew of opposing gangs waging war on the gas station! Attack the Gas Station does not have any big name actors, no recognizable faces, but the acting is enjoyable. Sang-Jin Kim is known for his knack of directing new talent. The feel of the movie is real enough, given the crazy premise, and the ride you go on with the cast is highly enjoyable, and incredibly funny.<br /><br />You wouldn't see Attack the Gas Station winning any Oscars or sweeping any film festivals, because that's not the aim of this film. Attack the Gas Station is a semi-serious comical ride of what some slightly confused youth do when they're bored, and nothing more. There is no camera art and no first grade performances, but I doubt that is what anyone going into this film expects. From the opening you understand what level to suspend your disbelief.<br /><br />Attack the Gas Station is a refreshing take on comedy that finds a very original and comical way to entertain its audience, while not wasting their time. Its pace is swift and fluid. From a very comical opening to a final parking lot battle between our new found "heroes," some very scared high schoolers, the yakuza, and a group of angst filled delivery boys, Attack the Gas Station is a spin on comedy that shouldn't be passed up.