Did I just watch a late 90's, made-for-TV thriller starring Kim Delaney? Boy, I must either be really bored or completely out of other material to watch because it's generally known that Miss Delaney has yet to deliver a decent film. To refer to this "Devil's Child" as being just mediocre would be a huge understatement, as this is a totally unoriginal and amateurish attempt to tell a religious horror story in the tradition of "Rosemary's Baby" or "The Omen". Delaney stars as a 30-something and single photographer. At age 10, she survived a deadly fall of a rooftop thanks to her mother, who made a pact with Satan himself (apparently, the Dark Prince didn't have anything better to do then to stroll around in hospitals) and, to return the favor, Nikki, after a life of infertility, will give birth to the Antichrist! And indeed, shortly after moving to a new apartment with a dubious reputation, Nikki meets a handsome and seemly sophisticated man who quickly turns out to be the devil in disguise. The plot is full of stupid little holes and it's particularly funny how Nikki "coincidentally" gets into contact with Alex (the devil). First she inherits a large sum of money, which allows her to move to the apartment complex where He and his accomplices live, then a poor dog has to die and then finally, she has to be rescued from a running wild car old-timer! The total lack of blood, sleaze and gruesome make-up effects is acceptable, since it's a made-for-TV horror film, but what about that totally ridiculous and pathetic ending?!? Dig this: (HUGE SPOILER!!!) They're about to baptize his son, the newly born Antichrist for Pete's sake, and all the Prince of Darkness does to prevent this from happening is produce a little bit of wind???? And then when Nikki walks out of the church with her baby, He just stands there and WALKS away?! He WALKS AWAY, like a little boy that didn't get what he wanted! They call that an ending? Delaney's performance is quite bad, but Oscar material compared with the work of her supportive colleagues, including Matthew Lillard; who would reach somewhat of a star-status later with the utterly retarded "Scooby-Doo" movies. There is ONE remotely interesting sequence in this film, though, and that's inside the auditorium where Mr. Satan gives a lecture about good and evil.