Avenging Eagle is the story of a man Chi Ming-sing (Ti Lung) who after years of killing for a brutal gang decides to leave and seek revenge against them and their leader. The gang, know as the Iron Boat Clan and in particular the men he raided with the 13 Eagles. All were raised from birth by Yoh Xi-hung (Ku Feng) to be brutal killers to obey his every command. Each with his own hand made eagle medallion and weapon. Now the 12 reaming eagles are sent out to find Chi Ming-sing and either kill him or to bring him back. Chi Ming-Sing soon runs into a wanderer Cheuk Yi-fan (Fu Sheng) who does not reveal himself at first, but decides to crusade against the clan together. As they head towards the clans base they are attacked in waves by the Eagles and defeat them one by one. As the movie goes on Chi Min sing tells his story of how he saw the light after being forced to kill a pregnant woman and betrayed the clan. In the final battle of the movie with Yoh Xi-hung, it's revealed that his companion is actually his worst enemy, the husband of the woman he killed and the man he swore to die by. In one of the great battles of Kung Fu cinema they combine forces to defeat there common foe. Chi Ming sing then forces Cheuk Yi-fan to kill him allowing his wife's spirit to rest in peace.<br /><br />Avenging Eagle is easily one of the greatest films the Shaw Brothers ever created. The story is great, played out with a solid cast of familiar A list Kung Fu actors from the Shaw's studio at the time. As with most Shaw Brothers films the action is non stop and choreographed well. Fans of the violent fights often seen in Shaw Brothers Kung Fu films will not be disappointed in the level of action and brutal fights in this film. The costumes worn by the actors were very unique. The "Eagles" each have a unique outfit with a primary color and medallion that matches their outfit. Also each member of the gang is usually equipped with a different or unique weapon. Ti Lung uses the 3 section staff and Fu Sheng uses a pair of hidden knives for what he would become know by, "the double blade." Among other interesting weapons would be Yien Lin's (Johnny Wang Lung-wei) brass ring and of course Yoh Xi-hung' iron claw gloves.<br /><br />Overall this is a masterpiece from the great Shaw Brothers. Compared to non Kung Fu films I'm sure most would find it stupid. But to fans of the Shaw's and Kung Fu films this is one of the great ones and not just your average Kung Fu flick. This isn't just action and killing but great story as well. Without a doubt this gets a big ten out of ten stars. Truly a classic.