John Mctierman and company have laid claim to the word 'Predator'. They have created the ultimate hunter/killer roaming the universe looking for worthy prey and this time it's Arnold (Dutch), and his able military team. This movie is fast paced enough to please action fans but also skillfully creates suspense by keeping their stalker in the shadows so that the predator feels ever present and is just cautiously eyeing and selecting it's prey. Bit by bit it is revealed to us until it's full horror is unleashed in the climatic scene.<br /><br />The casting of this movie is near perfection, except for Shane Black who was offered a bit part when he was not needed for screenwriting duties. Arnold is the ultimate screen superhero. He is seemingly invincible and his overbearing confidence makes his casting as a leader natural. His muscles, thick austrian accent and powerful name have helped him permanently claim roles as his own - Conan, the Terminator and of course this one. Without Arnold in the sequel, it was always going to pale in comparison. For the screen superhero it was obligatory to have an adversary from outer space. Only in this way was Arnold going to have to use all that he had to overcome the invader. This is the match - up that moviegoers will want to see - the world's superhero trying to save us from a threat from outer space. Although this sounds reminiscent of the 40's and 50's when Hollywood capitalized on people's fears of a threat from outer space, this movie far transcends those B grade movies.<br /><br />His crack unit is composed of some of the most outlandish characters the action genre has to offer. There is Jesse Ventura, the loud and attention seeking ex - professional wrestler. His gun says it all - everything is over the top with him. Sonny Landham is the indian with a sixth sense. It is this contribution that adds to the movie's suspense - he senses the Predator and quickly comes to realize that the team is up against something stronger than them. This unnerves the others since Billy is always the calmest and is able to access the enemy and give his team the advantage. Then there is of course the seasoned screen professional, Carl Weathers. He is always in top physical condition and this along with his smoothness, is ideal for his role as the ex - ops boy who becomes a collar and tie agent - a job that requires different values and he now uses the men he used slog in the trenches with. This grouping together of such strong personalities must have created a very competitive atmosphere which would have translated into better performances. Notwithstanding this fact John Mctierman must have had a big balancing act on his hands.<br /><br />Arnold's contribution to the movie was not just that of the leading character, he also recommended Stan Winston after the first Predator creation was curtly rejected by John Mctierman. His creation embodies all one could imagine that the alien predator could have. It has missiles, spears, blades as talons, camouflage, infra - red eyesight and can deftly move within any environment. Of particular note is how the predator looks. It is the personification of our nightmares. Our fears tend to exaggerate our monsters and they are endowed with unnaturally long claws, glaring evil eyes, excessive mandibles ending with unusually long teeth and they are of immense size and strength. This is spawned by Stan in his alien predator creation. Undoubtably he is the man best able to create these monsters that haunt us at night.<br /><br />Although there are scenes that remind you of the 70's slasher flicks, it is never done for the sake of it. These scenes show us how deadly the predator is and how it can swiftly attack and disappear without trace. The fact that highly trained team members are being killed in this way makes the rest feel vulnerable to the point of cracking. Unlike these slasher films the acting is better, no - one is helpless and these scenes fit into the story and are not the excuse for it.<br /><br />The climatic encounter is fantastic. Dutch uses all his capabilities to overcome the predator, but when facing his end the predator sizes him up as an opponent worthy enough to face unarmed. It had found a prey that by facing in unarmed, pure combat, it would prove itself as the true warrior. It's drive to be the ultimate warrior is it's undoing since it affords Dutch the opportunity to lead it to a trap.<br /><br />Also worthy of mention is the powerful military soundtrack thus setting the tone for a meeting of two great forces where one will stand and one will fall.<br /><br />