Plot: A special strike force team is sent in the jungles lead by Dutch (Arnold Schwarzenegger), for what he believe to be a rescue mission. But come to find out they were sent to stop a small army from crossing tons of weapons into the country. After they destroy the camp they soon relies they were tricked and expendable. Thinking this is the end they proceed to the check point where the Helicopter will take them home. But they are then hunted down one by one by an invisible enemy. Then find out this thing isn't human and is a hunter of unstoppable and futuristic tactics never seen on are planet. A Hunter from another world!<br /><br />My Spiel: This movie is absolutely one of my favorites. From a time I watched this movie for 3 straight months, for every day. Some days I watched it more then once. I had this on a terrible VHS tape. But for some reason having to rewind it and in the rewinding time span I wanted to watch it again and again. This movie is full of everything from blood/guts/bullets/knifes/aliens/war/soldiers/death. All those mix to make the true "Guy Movie". Granted this movie has it's flaws but come on, this is one of those ultimate badass movies where none of that crap matters. There have been tons of movies to try to duplicate this movie and all fail. I can't urge people enough to just watch this for what it is. The ultimate what the hell else could go wrong for a special elite team lead by Dutch (Arnold Schwarzenegger). That has already been tricked into doing a job, also in 115+ degree heat, and then to top it off a out of this world galactic hunter wants there bones for collectors pieces. From the attack on the base camp that they completely demolish, to the destruction of a square block of jungle with the mini gun scene. But this movie true message is the fact that Dutch is left to fight the Predator without the use of military weapons, but has to make his own out of the supplies and natural surroundings around him, which completely throw the Predator for a complete loop, or does it!<br /><br />After screening this movie to many times to count I have come up with a conclusion about the end. I believe that Poncho (Richard Chaves) the soldier with the automatic grenade launcher, Survived at the end. Well I believe he was in the lap of Anna (Elpidia Carrillo) in the helicopter at the end. Because you can see the hair of someone laying down but no face. And the only one with that short of hair at the time was Poncho, and heck I think Anna came back for him, granted he did get hit by a huge log, but who the hell else could it be. Also on another note in "Predator 2" they talk about only two special mission force members survived and I don't know what this means to you, but Anna is no special forces member! This is truly something that has bothered me for some time. But this movie had given me days of satisfaction and a must watch for anyone who likes Sci-fi/Horror/Action. Predator (1987) Review: 10/10