I really really enjoyed this show, especially the unpredictable way it took us through its dark Gothic set. Sure there is things that are not great, it feels a bit like the logic kind of jumps out the window from time to time, but that does not really matter! this show is about feelings(mostly sad ones) and about both avoiding and facing your destiny...<br /><br />**major spoilers ahead**<br /><br />True the first season were very different from the second one, but they had the same mood and theme. I liked the way Azazel and Cassie interacted in s.1 and the dark sense of a coming doom.. which do come, and facing her dark fate Cassie utterly fails, she dies giving way for our new heroine Ella. I liked this unexpected twist and how it affected the characters, this also makes the change in series 2 more warranted, with the Antichrist born and free the story arc about Cassie and her family history is not needed anymore, a bit sad and strange at first but it keeps the show much more interesting. I like the way Ella is far from perfect how she struggles and kind of fails and keep trying and fails again etc.. and how minor characters from earlier get bigger roles, especially Roxanne and Leon. When malachai appears (and he is a great Antichrist I must say) he seems less than happy about his role in the world.. he wants no part of his evil destiny, and also Ella seem to just wanna run away from her fate.. this unwillingness to abide to your destiny is a very interesting plot development I think, and is the whole Azazel-Cassie all over again but just a little different of course. Towards the end they both accept their fate to fight after a little help from heaven and hell (the question though, is who actually helped whom.. an excellent twist which runs through the whole show, almost no-one seems to be only good or bad, in the end everybody makes mistakes, even big ones, and everybody have strong feelings, and acting more or less selfish from time to time.) This changing in characters is the shows strongest (and sometimes weakest) point, I love it how everybody changes during the show but just feel that they change a bit too fast sometimes. Especially Thelma, who is the best character of the show, makes a lot of bad choices for selfish reasons.. but she also makes good ones, and like when it came to Amy, who can blame her? she has a very though fate indeed, facing a lot of sadness and only a little happiness.. I also like the sexiness of the show, it fits very well together with fallen angels, witches and the generally Gothic setting.<br /><br />Even though I really would like to see more I have trouble seeing what a 3rd season would be about, after all the evil won in the end, and the end of days came. True I am not completely happy in the way it ended. I like it that the bad guys won, they just were not clear enough about it, probably because they wanted to have some room for a third season, fir me just another 20-30 minutes to end it properly would do.. maybe just showing a scene of angels and demons battling each other in front of the burning school and Leon and Thelma hiding in the forest where we left them, crying of fear and failure over Ellas dead body.. and then suddenly meeting old friends (Cassie, Amy, Max, Roxanne, Tom, etc) and everybody then slowly goes away to heaven(or maybe hell) together (a semi happy ending, at least for our main characters getting the chance to meet and be together in the afterlife at least) A scene where Azazel, Raphael and Mephistopheles having a last drink together sitting quiet together seemingly contemplating their bitter and unhappy fates, of course with a close up on a tear falling from Azazels check before everything erupts into light/chaos, could be a kind of fitting/funny final scene <br /><br />anyway I really enjoyed this show. It was not completely logical, but in a way much more so than a lot of other series. With all the rambling above I basically just wanted to say that this is the best supernatural show out there with great interesting twists and turns. <br /><br />A lot of humor, attitude, sex, and cool music that fits the mood very well is also good reasons to see the show.