Recap: Stuart Conway, a talented programmer, has designed a cell-phone looking time machine. As he is not very popular anywhere he works, he decides to use the machine in a fraud, to repeatedly cash a paycheck in a bank. Interestingly enough he chooses his one and only love interest as the teller (imagine how happy she would be when she found out that he had been tricking her). Anyway, the FBI suspects Conway is up to something and agents Sarah Tanner and Jake Hallman, an item outside work as well, is at the bank watching him. Unfortunately for them, Winston Briggs and his gang has decided to rob the place. At first, Conway get shot after Tanner tries to stop the robbery, but he, with the help of Tanner only rewinds time. Second time it is instead Hallman that is fatally wounded, and this time Winston steals the time machine, although he doesn't know what it is. Tanner's only chance to save her love is Conway's machine, and she forces him to come with her and go after the machine.<br /><br />Comment: A very interesting idea this, with the time altering and the robbery and all. Time travel is very tricky business however, and not surprisingly this movie gets it wrong. And by wrong, I mean they contradict themselves. For instance it is said that all that touches the machine and those and that who touches the one holding the machine goes back in time. All other don't remember the time altering. This is how the fraud works. Conway gets the money, holds them (but not the check) and rewinds the time, and then cashes the check again, still holding the money for the first time. But in the end (do not read further if you don't want to know the end) Tanner is saved when Conway, who is shot, activating the machine. But Tanner is touching Conway and should therefore not be affected by the time travel. That is she should still be wounded after the time jump. In fact, Conway himself is returned from the dead in this way, and there it is very important that he didn't have any contact with the machine. There are more examples, very evident ones, that should have been detected and corrected by the crew if they had any intention in doing a movie of decent quality. Worse still though is the behaviour of the police. I don't think there is one gunfight were the officers in the line of fire tries to get behind cover. In fact, it is rare that they even crouch to make a smaller target (this is also somewhat true for the robbers) having absolutely no thought about surviving the fight. Luckily enough, all involved is the worst shooters of all time and wouldn't hit a house if they were standing inside it. So the casualty rate is surprisingly low. In addition to that, they seem amateurish enough that they don't search a robber that has actually been shot (maybe they were so surprised they forgot), making it possible for Tanner not just to retrieve a vital clue but also a loaded gun from a corpse about to be sent to the morgue. All my hopes for the movie disappeared then.<br /><br />It should be said though that there are some positive things. As said above, the idea is brilliant. The introduction, albeit a little slow, is beautiful and thoughtful. And I have no complaints about the special effects, in fact most of them are very good. But it can't make up for all the flaws in the story.<br /><br />4/10