I saw Slipstream at its World Premiere in London a few days ago and I'm quite surprised it didn't get a general release. The film has its faults but it maintained my interest to the end and was both well acted and stylishly directed. The time travel concept doesn't altogether add up and there is one sequence which still doesn't make any sense to me but this is science fiction and how many action films make much sense anyway? The important thing is it's good entertainment and thought provoking to boot. I would have preferred less shooting and exploding, especially in slow motion which makes for some confusion with the time travel sequences, and less bad language but these are minor complaints.<br /><br />The best thing about Slipstream is its strong performances. Sean Astin can always be relied upon to put in a great characterisation and he makes the scientist hero Stuart likable and funny despite being dishonest, cowardly and nerdy. A very pleasant surprise given the film's violence is how funny it is, and Sean Astin is the main reason for this. His subtlety ensures that for the most part there isn't too much of a clash of tone between the action and the comedy and the movie's generous use of close-ups takes full advantage of his facial expressiveness. Indeed the film is a real treat for Sean's many female admirers; he cuts a fine dash in pilot's uniform, not to mention some impressively tight jeans! He dominates the film with his charisma and charm, giving it most of its heart, proving once again his ability to carry a film despite so rarely being given the chance to do so. Nor is he let down by the rest of the cast. Ivana Milicevic (from Paycheck) does a good job as Sarah the tough FBI officer, interacting effectively with Astin. Most surprising was how good Vinnie Jones was as the villain, making an entertaining combination of malice and humour. This was the only aspect where the different tones of the drama sat together awkwardly however; the crooks are a seriously vicious bunch (I could have done without the exploding bus driver; I hope this wasn't meant to be funny) but humour is used to make them at least a little bit sympathetic. Nevertheless in retrospect this doesn't turn out to be too much of a problem because of how the film ends.<br /><br />One of the best features of Slipstream is its strong visual imagery. Sometimes it overreaches itself and becomes a little self-indulgent and disorienting but sometimes it is so striking it's almost poetic, especially a truly remarkable shot of a plane paused in motion as it crashes vertically into a mountain offset by a full moon. The script is serviceable and frequently witty. There is plenty of action and some genuine suspense. The ending remains in doubt until the final denouement. This isn't quite convincing but it doesn't really matter. Unusually for an action film you do care about the characters, especially Stuart, even though they themselves seem to care little about the carnage around them, and want them to survive. The final shot is enigmatic but very satisfying both dramatically and visually (especially for the aforementioned Astin admirers) and sends you out on a high. I would certainly want to see this film again, and soon.    