First, let me point out that I don't hate this movie. It's not bad. No, really. I mean, for what it is, Basket Case 2 ain't bad. That said, I really, really wish that this movie didn't exist. That pretty much sums up how I feel about the first sequel to Basket Case. I just can't understand how anyone who claims to be a huge fan of the original, could approve of this. And that's what I am; a HUGE fan of Basket Case. I saw that movie, as a kid, on USA Saturday Nightmares. An experience that would trigger an obsession for (almost) all that is B-cinema. I've already reviewed the original; now, I guess I should say something about this unfortunate, unnecessary sequel. This won't be easy...<br /><br />Alright, so, Henenlotter is playing the "freaks" card for everything it's worth . Whatever. Somehow, Duane and Belial has survived. A friend of their dead aunt, Granny Ruth, rescue the bickering brothers from the hospital, and takes them back to her place, a sanctuary for... you guessed it, freaks!! Whatever. Like I said before, not a bad movie, at all. Just nowhere near good enough to be associated with greatness. Anyway, back to Duane and Belial. So, anyway, the brothers are stuck in a house with over a dozen irritating freaks. Seriously, these guys are a whole lot more messed up than Belial. Hell, even more than Duane. Duane wants to ditch these guys, and take Ruth's granddaughter with him, and Belial is cool with hanging out there, especially since he, too has found someone. When a tabloid reporter tries to expose the freak house, Duane, being the swell guy that he is, sticks around to help his new friends defend their turf. Whatever.<br /><br />What I really hate about Basket Case 2 is that it's like a real movie. It's completely devoid of that grainy, sleazy, inept charm that the original just kinda ended up with. A quality that was pretty much non-existent by 1990. Come to think of it, nowadays would be a more appropriate time for a Basket Case sequel, with all the decent, modern Exploitation to come out of the last decade (Gutterballs). But, once again, if I had my way, there would never be a sequel. Much less, a part 3, where the gang take it down to Georgia, and whatnot. I never said don't buy Basket Case 2. Definitely support Henenlotter, simply because the guy is awesome. But if you just recently saw the original, and you got the Henenlotter fever, the next logical step would be to check out Brain Damage. Now, that you're hooked, now would be a good time to try out the sequel that never was. With hard feelings and resentment aside, I do have one last positive thing to say about Basket Case 2. No spoilers, but just so you know, the ending makes it all worth it... Almost. 7/10