(Includes a background of characters that reveals who they are, If you want to keep all that a surprise, don't read this review.)<br /><br />This movie is a movie that you feel okay with watching every once and awhile. It is one of my favorite Disney Channel Original Movies because it has a plot that you can follow. It also has a lot of people in the movie, making it a movie that all people can relate to because there is lots of different types of people as well. I liked it also because even though the family cast may not be the best of actors and actresses, they put together a family type of feeling that makes it seem like they are a family, even though they are not. The ideas that the movie used were pretty clever as well. The movie centers on a phantom terrorizing a big 26-screen movie theater. This is mainly a mystery as to who has been doing all of the unwanted actions in the theater.<br /><br />To give you a background and summary of the characters I'll tell you about the family in the movie. The main character is Pete Riley, played by Taylor Handley. He is the assistant manager of this big megaplex, which means he has a lot of responsibility and duties to bring about before his shift is over. He has two siblings in the movie, his younger sister, Karen, played by Caitlin Wachs, and his younger brother, Bryan, played by Jacob Smith. They are the typical type of a younger brother and sister that nag you and annoy you mainly because they are bored. Pete is the type of older brother that in a way, tolerates it. They have a mother as well, who is probably just your everyday mother that has her sternness and fun side. <br /><br />I think that Mickey Rooney, playing Movie Mason, did the best acting job. There were really no let-downs in this movie, but being a Disney Channel Original movie, it could have been better, only by adding more character development. This is a movie mainly for kids 6-11 or so. Teens may also enjoy it, only the teens today are mostly into PG-13 movies, not necessarily G movies. I enjoyed the movie because of the slight comedy, mystery, and some suspense. All in all it is worth it to see. Children will most definitely like it, maybe adults too. It's a good family movie that I give an 8.5/10.