This film was a sequel film to a better comedy: FOUL PLAY which was made in 1976 and co-starred Chevy Chase and Goldie Hawn. In that one the former was a police officer who is trying to protect the Pope on a visit to San Francisco, and the latter is an innocent by-stander who stumbles into the details of an assassination plot. The story worked with the assistance of Dudley Moore as a befuddled not-so-innocent third party who gets dragged into the proceedings by Hawn, Eugene Roche as a conspirator, Billy Barty as an accidental victim of Hawn's fears and hysteria, and Burgess Meredith and Rachel Roberts having an unexpected classic judo face off. Oh, all to the concluding music from Act I of Gilbert and Sullivan's THE MIKADO.<br /><br />SEEMS LIKE OLD TIMES is a remake of sorts of the 1942 film THE TALK OF THE TOWN. That film dealt with Cary Grant as a fugitive being hidden in a house by Jean Arthur, while jurist Ronald Colman (just nominated for the U.S. Supreme Court) is renting the same house from Arthur. Here Chase is the fugitive, hiding in the garage of his first wife Hawn, unbeknown-st to her second husband Charles Grodin (who is being considered for the post of Attorney General of California. The screenplay is by Neil Simon this time, and there is good supporting roles by Robert Guillaume, George Grizzard, and Harold Gould (as an increasingly annoyed local judge). However, TALK OF THE TOWN was dealing with a man accused of an arson murder due to his labor union activities. Grant was an activist in that film. Chase comes across as something of a schmuck here - he is forced at gunpoint to assist two men in a bank robbery, is set up to deliver the note to the teller, gets his face photographed too well by the bank's camera, and is then tossed out of the speeding car on a hillside by the two felons. The audience knows Chase is innocent, and gradually Hawn and Grondin and Guillaume realize it too. But it seems that Chase had a similar bad experience in Mexico regarding being framed for a drug deal - and had spent some time in prison as a result there. He seems to be an unlucky sort.<br /><br />The weaknesses of Chase's character aside, SEEMS LIKE OLD TIMES is funny, and understandably so - it has a Neil Simon script. In fact, aside from the one-liners that pepper it, there are moments in it that reminded me of other films and plays Simon has written. In some late moments of intimacy between Hawn and Chase I felt that some of Chase's descriptions of Hawn's little idiosyncrasies actually could have been dialog left over from BAREFOOT IN THE PARK, from scenes between Robert Redford and Jane Fonda. And the unwelcome intrusion of Chase into an organized household resembles the situations in THE ODD COUPLE and THE SUNSHINE BOY, where Oscar has to make room for Felix, and Willie Clark has to reunite with Al Lewis.<br /><br />There are plenty of amusing sections: Chase fighting back fear and hysteria when he is with the kidnapping bank robbers (when he compliments the wording of the bank robbing note, the robber who wrote it thanks him); Hawn's fighting for the underdog legal practice, which results in her having a growing number of clients she is helping to get honest employment for - even in her own household; Gould's judge trying to get to the point of the ridiculous arguments and fact patterns that first Hawn and later Grodin put into his court; Grizzard's governor looking forward to dinner with his future attorney general, and his favorite dish, only to find the state's number one criminal is serving it to him. All in all it is an entertaining film. But it is not as concentrated and unified a script as FOUL PLAY was. You will enjoy the film, but FOUL PLAY is somewhat more memorable.