I usually rave about crappy movies in my reviews, but this one disturbed me more than most others. Not because of the violence, which was as over the top as one might expect, but because of the implication that sexual violence against women is somehow humorous. Unlike other horror movies with a high boob and body count, the writer of this movie (Lance W. Dreesen) never misses an opportunity to completely degrade and dehumanize the female characters. A disturbing, repeated theme is how sexual violence perpetrated against women is mocked by a "joke" from the werewolf character. For instance, one of the throwaway sorority girls in the opening sequence is revealed to be a virgin; this seemingly unnecessary plot thread is brought to fruition after she is raped by the werewolf before her throat is ripped out during the rape. After this despicable act, the werewolf taunts her boyfriend about the rape, remarking, "she ain't a virgin anymore!" Another example: the lead female character, Sam, is revealed to be in love with the lead male character Derek. This seemingly innocent plot thread is exploited when she is forced to perform oral sex on Derek's evil step-dad. Of course, evil step-dad tells Derek all about it and remarks, "you ain't tapped that yet?" Don't let my description of these acts of sexual violence make you think that the acts are graphically depicted. For the most part, the sex is implied rather than revealed, but the characters discuss sex in a graphic way. I suppose it's all meant to reveal the main point of the movie, namely answering the question: "what would happen if an evil s.o.b. was a werewolf?" This movie certainly answers that question again and again, probably well beyond most viewers' willingness to watch it all.<br /><br />In summation, there's so much ugliness in this movie that it's hard to find a bright spot. The concept of a talking, taunting werewolf is interesting, but I would have liked to see it utilized in a manner different from that described above. Kimberly J. Brown is really excellent as Sam and Trevor Duke does a good job as wimpy Derek. Richard Tyson does his best Jack Nicholson impersonation as Mitchell Toblat ("Talbot" spelled backwards), which really isn't much of a complement. I really hope that "Big, Bad Wolf" is the first and last movie made with this cast of characters. I dread seeing what writer Lance W. Dreesen could come up with to try to top the sexual violence and hatred present in this movie.