This is a funny Jackie Chan film, that's great fun to watch,with some awesome stunts, and two knockout performances from Jackie Chan!. All the characters are cool, and the story is very entertaining, plus Jackie Chan is simply amazing in this!. I really liked the opening in black and white when they showed the twins as kids, and I loved the reference to Stallone and The Rocky movies with Tammy's(Nina Li Chi) boyfriend Rocky, plus it has some pretty good fights in it too. I actually found this to be more of a Comedy, but that's OK because it was highly enjoyable, and I think this should be higher then 6.0, plus the ending is absolutely hilarious!. As always Jackie does some amazing stunts, and the scene where Jackie and Tyson(Teddy Robin Kwan) escape on the boat is pretty exciting, plus while some of the humor is incredibly silly I couldn't help but laugh at it. The scene where Boomer plays at the Orchestra and does John Ma's work is a scream, plus the fight at the car wash is also hilarious! (since the brother John Ma can't fight). This is a funny Jackie Chan film, that's great fun to watch, with some awesome stunts, and two knockout performances from Jackie Chan, I highly recommend this one!. The Direction is great!. Ringo Lam and Hark Tsui do a great! job here with very good camera work, good angles and just keeping the film funny and at a very fast pace. The Acting is lots of fun!. Jackie Chan is amazing as always and is amazing here, he is hilarious, extremely likable as both Boomer and Joh Ma, had great chemistry with both Maggie Cheung and Nina Li Chi, kicked that ass, and was absolutely charming! (Jackie Rules!!!!!!!). Maggie Cheung is gorgeous and does fine as Boomer's(well technically) love interest, she was likable and did a great job I really liked her. Teddy Robin Kwan is funny as Boomer's best friend Tyson, he was likable and added a lot of laughs I dug him. Nina Li Chi is beautiful, and also did fine as John Ma's love interest (well technically), I really liked her. Alfred Cheung is good as the villain and was menacing. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall I highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5