Rajesh Khanna and Asha Parekh as the lead romantic pair , are quite endearing, in this combination of a little romance, mystery, villainy, and cabaret numbers, plus wonderful music, with meaningful lyrics, and this otherwise commercial movie , succeeds in engrossing you in it's plot line. Film's casting with Prem Chopra as a woman chaser, cheating, two timing villain, Bindu as a vamp, and a cabaret dancer, with that famous number, which includes a dialogue, Tumhara Nam kya hain, ya Madhu, and Rajesh and Asha in their hey days, is satisfactory. even Nassir Hussein as the father-in law, in love with his grandson, and compassionate to his widowed daughter-in-law, who is actually an imposter,by the strange twist of destiny, caused by an unfortunate train accident , delivers a sensitive performance . This movie is pleasant on the eyes too, with it's cinematography, and shooting of outside locations of a hill station, covering beautiful lakes, and greenery around the place, where the story takes place. Asha is a good actress, and her performance as a torn young woman, between her love towards Rajesh, and realization of the unfortunate role of a widow that she has to enact, in a prestigious, wealthy family, is really touching. Rajesh , in his usual stylized mannerisms, and some everlasting songs by kishore Kumar for him to enact on the screen, is adorable. Dialogues are well-written, and poignantly delivered . However, if only we overlook the clichéd situation, that Rajesh was the one, to whom Asha was supposed to be getting married, and elopes for the love of Prem Chopra, who is a bad man in the story, as well as the train accident, The father-in -law, who hasn't seen the girl to whom his son was married before, and Asha entrapped in a situation, to abide by the oath that she would take care of that orphaned baby etc. and finally, the truth dawning on her, that it's Rajesh, whom she had wronged unwittingly, but loves him now deeply, the movie is a passé. This movie made a fairly good business at the box, and most of the songs are still fresh in the people's memory. it also indicates to the problem of young girls eloping from their homes, and landing in trouble eventually. The idea of widow remarriage wasn't acceptable even then, as one can observe from the attitudes of the older generation shown in this movie. Worth watching at least once !