After reading the positive comments here and seeing the 1 star rating on my digital cable guide, I decided to give it a chance (plus, I'm a big Alan Arkin fan after seeing him in 'Catch-22', 'Glengarry Glen Ross', and 'Little Murders'). And I have to say that it's not as bad as it's made out to be. It's actually really really funny--if you have a certain sense of humor. I was dying with laughter during the scene where Arkin and Rob Reiner started fighting on the father's bed--on top of the father! There were other good scenes: the kids throwing the rocks through the windows, Arkin approaching the basketball player on the court, the crazy Jewish mother throughout the whole movie, "Keep Out Putz!" written on the office door and the scene with the comatose dad and the insurance guys. I could go on because I really liked this movie. The only thing that kinda bugged was Rob Reiner's attacks, but eh. What are you gonna do?<br /><br />I think that you have to enjoy a certain type of humor to find this movie funny. During the whole thing I found myself drawing parallels to my favorite sitcom, Arrested Development. Crazy dysfunctional family? Check. Adopting a kid of a completely different race for personal gain? Check. Buring down a business for money? Check. (Episode 2 of Season 1--Top Banana!) Multiple story lines that culminate into one big finale? Yup. And there was even a big wacky ending involving all the family members. Both are very slapstick-y comedies with both dry and over the top jokes. If you love that kind of humor, then you'll really like Fire Sale. If you're more into standard comedies, then you'll probably become very easily annoyed and change the channel.<br /><br />I'd love to see a cheap DVD of this movie out in a letterbox format. I remember Fox Movie Channel used to run some kind of promo trailer/short documentary before showing it, so I'd love to see that as well. Plus, some of the scenes are very dark. I'm not sure if this is the print of the movie or Arkin's intention, but it would be nice to see this movie remastered and released in the future, but that probably won't happen. A girl can dream though!