Before I got paid to photograph Hotels and Restaurants (advertising). I spent a good part of the eighty's and ninety's as a photographer in the Music industry. I've traveled with many bands doing tour photography and also was a contributor to many Music magazines. So I've been behind the scenes. Whenever I get a chance to watch these documentaries, esp Vh1 Behind the Music. I sit and watch them to see how much of it is a true realistic look at life in the music industry. I have to admit I think Vh1 Behind the Music is an excellent production (even seen myself in the background a few times). The difference between the Vh1 show and a documentary like All We are Saying (or babbling it should be). Is that Vh1 does their research and gives you an a full history and true account of the artist (good and bad) from beginning to the present. They make it interesting to the viewer to watch. Rosanna Arquette basically just sticks a camera in the faces of these artists and gives them this open forum to ramble on and on and on....30 Min's into it...I thought what is the freakin point of this? I'm falling a sleep here! <br /><br />I loved hearing Steven Tyler at the very beginning of the film sitting at his mansion complaining about how his record label calls him to tell him his song that was worth a million dollars is now worth 12 cents...cause every ones downloading! But its certainly OK for him to allow the promoters and his record label  to rip his fans off by charging a $150 for an Aerosmith ticket and $20 for a Cd. That's very lame Steven. You have lost my respect. <br /><br />Many artists in this production I've photographed. I didn't remember them babbling this much when I met them. Maybe..if she would have showed the full interviews or didn't cut away to so many at once. Each interview would have made more sense. The editing in this film is some of the worst I've ever seen. Unless they were trying to make a film that absolutely made no sense whatsoever, and wanted to bore everyone to the point of wanting to slice their wrist to end the pain of watching this very boring film. Then they did a great job...