I was going to give this a 4 but it gets a 10. Its hilarious! I got a feeling Drew Johnson (who starred, wrote and directed this film) is a big baseball fan. Assuming this is true, he should know better than this. I understand this is a chick-flick but to appeal to the male audience there needs to be some accuracy here. This movie is definitely not BULL DURHAM. PITCHER AND THE PINUP falls flat. Everything with baseball in this movie made me laugh. The sports clichés, stadium inaccuracies, and actors who don't look like ball-players make thishilarious. Among the the absurd highlights: -- "But coach, (I can't play third) I've pitched EVERY GAME this year!" -- The gypsy/scout who foretells the future with his deck of cards. -- The can't miss Major Leaguer who can't hit balls thrown at a speed meant for a 4-yr-old with a giant plastic red bat until he learns a poem to help him with his hitting. -- The star going AWOL for two weeks and being allowed back by a sympathetic manager because of a "woman." -- The best friend being offered a contract and a spot on the team after the manager sees him playing catch. No hitting, No workout, No interview. Just catch. -- "Congratulations on your 15 strikeouts and your 4 for 4 with a home run." <br /><br />Basically, this movie is absurd, yet hilarious. You will only like this movie of you are female. If you are a real guy you will fine this funny.<br /><br />My other gripes: -- Borrowed love story of Forrest Gump -- Why in the world was she always saying "I love this country?" Was she an immigrant? I guess so because she grew up in Vegas. -- Flashback overload. Enough of the Star Wars and Farrah Fawcett Tshirts. Also, if you use historical events to timeframe, use something astronomical, not the obscure highjacking of a cruise ship. My favorite timeframe placing was when one character goes, "Man, it is 1988!" <br /><br />In the end, this movie HILARIOUS. Cheesy lines, bad casting, horrible acting, and inaccuracies ... Great for a laugh, I'm buying the DVD!