SPECIAL NOTE: Although this film is based on a true historical character, however, the film is not intended to depict a documentry on the real Asoka's life/journey as was in reality. Most of the film is highly dramatized for the entertainment value. This film does however provide very basic information about the actual Kalinga War and asoka's transformation from a hindu to a buddist.<br /><br />Synopsis-<br /><br />Asoka (Shahrukh Khan) grows up fascinated with a voilent weapon and hopes that it will in return bring him great power and respect. The setting of the story is in the 2nd century B.C. in the kingdom of Magadha of south central India. Eventually Asoka grows up to be a great furious fighting warrior winning many wars and battles thus expanding the entire Mauryan Empire. Asoka's goal is to become the new head of the throne which was currently headed by his elder brother Susima (Ajith). Susima, whom becomes extremely jealous of Asoka quick rising fame and power, try's many indirect attempts to have Asoka killed before he reaches the throne but sadly for susima, he fails at all attempts to have asoka killed. Asoka's journey later continues when he is asked to leave the Kingdom of Magadha by his mother Dharma (Subhasini Ali) and for him to go in his own path. Asoka decides to go to Kalinga, on his new journey, he meets a wise buddist who tells him that his journey is larger than just heading the throne of Magadha. Asoka also meets and falls in love with a strange women Kaurwaki (Kareena Kapoor) also known to be Princess Kaurwaki of Kalinga. As the story develops more, Asoka and Kaurwaki get married but on the day of their marriage, Asoka is asked to return to Magadha as news makes him aware that his mother is very ill. As the entire story from here unfolds, things take a real big turn, as Asoka does indeed become larger than just retaining the throne, he also loses his communication with Kaurwaki and her younger brother Arya (Suraj Balaji) and the story leaves you with a shocking and questionable ending.<br /><br />Technicality-<br /><br />This film has dynamite Cinematography (Santosh Sivan) & Art Direction (Sabu Cyril), its easily compariable to the likes of Santosh Sivan's other great works such as The Terrorist and Mina Nair's Kamasutra and almost to the likes of Peter Pau & Jian-Quo Wang Chrouching Tigers, Hidden Dragon. For a commerical bollywood film, its cinematography & art direction is the most exotic & decadent works in reccent times and it actually makes one believe that the setting was indeed the second century B.C. of Ancient India. One can also easily debate weather Santosh Sivan's cinematography alone had a message of its own inrelations to the story. He is perhaps one of India's most thought-provoking film cinematographers ever. However, technicality, these are perhaps the films two biggest plus points. As good as that area is, other technicality ares strongly disappoint just as well. A. Sreekar Prasad's film editing & Sandeep Chowta's background musical score is very poor. Many times through out the film, it felt that the story was being rushed and that each scene wasn't shown with full justise. This is hard to believe, as A. Sreekar Prasad has done some excellent film editing for previous films such as Dil Chahta Hai and The Terrorist. Even most of the songs were not shown with proper starting and/or ending, I've even noticed that bits of each song was deleted inbetween to kick forward the movie ahead. Only thought that comes to my mind when realizing this is, Why? Which brings me to the background musical score by Sandeep Chowta, there were some parts in the movie where background score was loud and annoying and I felt that some scenes would have turned out to be better without any background music just so that the scene can be simple just as its setting, by adding the background music made the look of those certain scene unrealistic and more of a fantasy, which is a total turn off. Even some action fighting sequences (excluding the Kalinga War) were poor. However, the Kalinga War itself wasn't the works of anything original, I spotted a few scenes which were ripped off from Hollywood movies such as The Patriot & Gladiator. Though I totally don't disrespect the entire Kalinga War scene, as it is one of my favorite scenes of the movie.<br /><br />Performances-<br /><br />Shah Rukh Khan is really good, Asoka is perhaps his best performance since Mohabbatein and Hey Ram. He is especially good in the second half of the film as his character takes on some major changes and Shahrukh Khan does good justice to each transformation. His performance is bound to get him a nomination for best actor in most award ceremonies next year. But it is Kareena Kapoor whoes performance suprises the most from the entire cast, this is her best attempt at acting since her dabute. She had a very challenging character which took many twist and turns, and she played it perfect to the T. She too is bound to get a nominee for best actress for her performance in Asoka at most award ceremonies next year. Other commendable performances should go to Suraj Balaji, whom portrayed the cute, innocent yet brave little younger brother of Kaurwaki. Also, not to mention Rahul Dev and first time newcommer Hrishitaa Bhatt for there commendable performances. And Johnny Lever, whom as always provides great comic releif.<br /><br />Overall Thoughts-<br /><br />The film's greatest trademark are its Cinematography & Art Direction which hold really strong from start to finsih, and this was easily expected from this film because you have two masterminds working on it side by side. The first half of the film is so-so because of its poor film editing. But thank goodness for the second half, the story really begins to catch attention, and the main performances really begin to appeal to the eyes. Santosh Sivan's overall direction is good, although his work in the Terrorist is easily superior than Asoka in the direction department. So does Asoka have a repeat viewing value? I would say that it does in most cases, mainly thanks to its overall look and a strong second half film for its saviour. However, A bit of more depiction of Asoka becoming a buddist would have been more appricated. Though it is not the best film of the year (2001) and it cannot be compared to the quality of Lagaan through its story telling, but its definilty one of the top five films of 2001. But one thing I cannot stop addressing enough of is that, from the point of view of its Cinematography & Art Direction, Asoka is a true classic, its definitly a visual feast to the eye.