In 2001, Dr. Richard Estes and Dr. Neil Alan Weiner estimated that there are one million child prostitutes in the world and the average age of entry into prostitution is between 11 and 13. This disturbing subject has been largely ignored by the movies, with the exception of Lilya-4-Ever and Paul Williams' London to Brighton. Containing stellar performances by Lorraine Stanley as Kelly, a street-smart prostitute, and Georgia Groome as Joanne, an 11-year-old runaway, London to Brighton is a low budget but gritty, uncompromising thriller that dramatizes the lives of two young prostitutes, the predators who prey on them, and the criminal underworld of British society.<br /><br />Though it is sometimes hard to watch because of the graphic violence, the film conveys a sense of humanity that shines through the despair. As London to Brighton begins, two hysterical young girls hide in a public toilet in London's Victoria Station in the middle of the night The younger girl, possibly only 11 or 12, her face smeared with lipstick and bruises, cries copious tears while the older, chubbier girl tries to comfort her though her own face is a mass of welts and black and blue marks. Both girls are hiding from their pimp Derek (Johnny Harris) and his client Stuart Allen (Sam Spruell) after a botched job in which the client's father, Duncan Allen (Alexander Morton) died in the client's apartment.<br /><br />It began when Kelly, on orders from Derek, went scouting for an underage girl to match the needs of his wealthy client. Now on the run, Kelly leaves Joanne in the rest room while she does some "work" to obtain money to visit a safe house in Brighton. The film unfolds in a non-linear fashion and we gradually learn the sordid details in flashbacks. As the girls head to Brighton to take cover, Derek and his cohort Chum (Nathan Constance), forced to take action against the girls before they have to pay the price themselves, are determined to track them down.<br /><br />Recently released on a subtitled DVD that includes a commentary by the director and others, an alternate ending, and eight deleted scenes, London to Brighton packs a wallop. Energy and tension adorn the film from start to finish, a span of only 85 minutes. Though some of the scenes indicate a sense of lost hope, in the courage and loving protectiveness of Kelly and the childlike innocence of Joanne, there is also a sense of possibility. Winner of the Best New Director Award at the Edinburgh Film Festival with a style reminiscent of the raw immediacy of Shane Meadows and the social awareness of Ken Loach, Paul Williams in London to Brighton has delivered an outstanding first feature.