I saw London to Brighton recently on DVD and I just had to voice my opinion. It really is one of the most exciting films I've seen for a long time. It's gritty, hard-hitting and never dull. Not only does London to Brighton triumph as a great British film but also as a gripping thriller, and one of which I can safely say new comer Paul Andrew Williams should be proud.<br /><br />London to Brighton tells the tale of young runaway Joanne and prostitute Kelly who's lives collide and consequently take a turn for the worst. The film is told mainly within flashback sequences that slowly reveal the sinister reasons for Joanne and Kelly's hasty departure to normally colourful Brighton (this film couldn't be further from that happy seaside town). It all starts when Kelly's pimp Derek asks her to locate a young girl for one of his clients; Kelly refuses at first but eventually gives in. It doesn't take long her to locate hard talking 11 year old Joanne wondering the streets of London. The two then visit the house of Derek's wealthy and well-connected client, the result of which forces the pair to flee London in fear of being perused by Derek and is mob of amateur gangsters.<br /><br />At times it really is quite a painful film to watch. The very idea of prostituting a girl that young is sickening yet 13 year old Georgia Groome stands alone as the disillusioned runaway. Her portrayal of a homeless child ushered into prostitution is particularly hard hitting and often heart breaking. One scene I found particularly shocking sees Kelly, Joanne and Derek in a greasy spoons café; Joanne is awkwardly smoking and acting tough though it is clear she is out of her depth. The setting itself is grim but it was the conversation that made me squirm, asking a young girl not yet a teenager weather she is virgin is or is not a virgin made tense uncomfortable viewing, her innocents shining through by the fact she appeared to be unaware of what was being said.<br /><br />I was amazed at the films tiny budget; Paul Andrew Williams is definitely a gifted director to produce something so gripping with such little money. I even heard he gave out minor parts in film to friends in exchange for the use of their cars.<br /><br />All in all this is defiantly a step in right direction for British film. Hopefully with films like this, Red Road (Andrea Arnold, 2006, another I recommend) and home-grown talent such as Shane Meadows we can prove we Brits are not all about predictable romantic comedies and Jane Austin adaptations.