Shahrukh Khan has to be a versatile actor. He played a young man married to a "widow" in Deewana, an understanding adopted son in Pardes, or a rich NRI kid who still knows his roots in DDLJ. He also played a man who has to choose between money and "the" girl in Yes Boss, two OPPOSITE identical people in Duplicate, a man in love with a terrorist in Dil Se..., a man seeking revenge for his father in Baazigar, or widow whose heart yearns for an engaged girl in KKHH. This role is nothing like those past roles. Now he plays a James Bond wannabe who gets stuck in a mission that affects the girl he loves. This role may not be anywhere near the roles I mentioned, but he highly impresses. The movie is complicated, but it is also interesting and it keeps your head up. The movie could have done without comedy, but knowing this is a Shahrukh Khan movie, there is always room for jello; I mean comedy. The movie has it's number of clichés, but in a way helps the movie (if you know what I mean). Though one thing I should mention, Twinkle Khanna may resemble Raveena Tandon, she is totally unfit for Shahrukh. But Twinkle Khanna definitely makes her present felt and I can't really see another actress for this role. Amrish Puri was not bad, but he looked to old when fighting with Shahrukh. Raakhee impresses in her first scene, but after-wards she looses her place in the movie. Deepak Tjori was good as he should have been the lead villain though Deepshika was completely out of place and deserves better roles. The songs were excellent. The title song was a sadly unnoticed song because it's awesomely presented. Woh Ladki Jo (That Girl Who) luckily got some recognition being the HIT song. Mohabbat Ho Gayee Hain (Love Has Happened) was nicely danced. Hum To Deewane Huye (We Have Become Crazy) was such a nice song that one couldn't care that Shahrukh-Twinkle aren't Jodi No. 1. Main To Hoon Pagal was okay though being a catchy song. Thankfully the song Oh Baby was only left to the soundtrack (Anu Malik should stop singing). Otherwise the movie was nice and fun to watch.