"A Philosophizing Irish Priest Is My Co-Pilot". One of the silliest war movies ever. A dumb old film about pilots who can hardly wait to have their behinds blown to bits and strewn across the Asian sky. They all remind me of a similar side-character in "Black Adder 4". Watching this film, I realized just how much I was missing having some level-headed characters with a down-to-earth approach to flying missions, such as in Heller's "Catch-22" (one of the best books ever written, by the way). These dopes actually change their mind about going back home and decide to continue fighting just because some Jap taunted them over the radio! Are these people grown-ups or embryos? About as realistic as the lyrics in "I Am The Walrus". The dialogues are stiff and dull, and often supremely silly. Silly to the extent that some of the exchanges could have been written by none other than Ed Wood himself; an example would be the conversation between the hero and his girl. The Japanese pilots are nearly always shown grinning devilishly, and their flying skills are always poor - except for a character called Tokyo Joe, who taunts his American opponents with a series of comic-book-like phrases, all of which end with "yank". Then there is the wise old Irish priest, a walking movie cliché, with an unrivaled reservoir of "hope-inspiring" speeches. "Yes... More dreams have been brought about by prayer than this world dreams of", he says at the end, and I will leave that uncommented. (No, I won't: so what he is implying is that people must be constantly praying for natural disasters, wars, disease and misery.) Another unintentionally amusing Irish moment is when our hero pours out some of his deeper thoughts to the priest and the priest's first reaction is to say "You're confused." And yet another silly scene, involving our blessed Irishman of the cloth, is when he gives one of his grandiose speeches to our hero in a plane about belief in God, and the weather suddenly improves. Oh, yes; there's also the sausage-shaped dog who sniffs out the Japs from ten miles.