What can I say? I'm a movie-lover, game player and game designer, so of course I'm going to see flaws others will not. However, this movie doesn't really have anything outstandingly "bad". It does have some dumb spots, so I'll cover those quick and get them out of the way: 1) A Mage summoning a creature of fire in the library of priceless lore and nobody being concerned or telling her "do that outside", then they wonder when things catch fire. 2) A pit/floor trap with spikes that shoot up from below in an elevated hut where there is clearly nothing visible beneath the floor once they're outside again. 3) A lot of single lines that are too "B" in feel and distract from the atmosphere of the movie. Now, on to the good stuff. Like role-playing games themselves, this movie takes a little getting used to. It's easy to spot a single bad line or act of stupidity by a hero (and there are plenty of them), but I ask: If every movie hero never made any mistakes, would we really like them? Gamers make mistakes. It helps the "feel" of the film. The script is very well put together, balancing the two very different realms of a good "game adventure" and a plot that works within the style of a movie. The references to the D&D literature (both rules and classic AD&D modules) was very good, the plot made sense, it incorporated plenty of "D&D style", and it had a different feel to it. This does not feel like a TV movie, but it clearly isn't Lord of the Rings, either. But it's not trying to be. What is nice about this movie is that it is simply trying to be itself, and the "feel of D&D" comes through nicely because of that. I think they did well with what they had to work with (continuing a horrible initial film's story, low budget, and probably competitive producers as well). All I can say is that, both as a gamer and a fan of fantasy film, I was satisfied. If I want high drama and epic film-making, that's what LOTR is for. I'll put this D&D movie on the same shelf as Army of Darkness and The Mummy, as good adventure romps that I'll watch again and again.