Troubled divorced Detective Wes Block (a bold and impressive performance by Clint Eastwood) investigates a brutal series of hooker murders in New Orleans. Said killings uncomfortably correspond with Block's own unsavory penchant for having kinky sex with prostitutes. Pretty soon Block is forced to confront head-on the more base and unappealing aspects of his own tormented psyche. Writer/director Richard Tuggle relates the compellingly sordid plot at a gradual, yet steady pace, develops a good deal of tension, delivers a vivid and intriguing evocation of the seamy Big Easy red light district, and, most of all, offers a strong and provocative exploration of the extremely warped and disturbing aspects of severely aberrant male sexuality and perversity (for example, Block likes to handcuff woman while making love to them in order to have a sense of control). Eastwood's Wes Block makes for a fascinatingly flawed and complex character: While he's a loving father to his two daughters (well played by Jennifer Beck and Clint's real-life daughter Alison), he nonetheless suffers from some seriously messed-up carnal hang-ups. Genevieve Bujold lends winningly sparky support as gutsy and hard-nosed rape-crisis therapist Beryl Thibodeaux; her witty exchanges with the macho Block are quite lively and amusing. Dan Hedaya also does well as Block's partner Detective Molinari. Ravishing redhead Jamie Rose, buxom blonde Randi Brooks, and equally busty blonde Rebecca Perle are very sexy and gorgeous as three of the killer's victims. The scenes between Block and his daughters are both funny and touching. Moreover, the nice sprinkling of tasty female nudity and deviant sex give this feature an extra seedy and twisted edge. The climactic confrontation between Block and the psycho is highly exciting and suspenseful. Bruce Surtees's sharp'n'shadowy cinematography gives the picture a suitably garish look. Lennie Niehaus' supremely bluesy and jazzy score likewise hits the spot. Moody and atmospheric, this seedy thriller rates as one of Clint Eastwood's most audacious and praiseworthy 80's films.