Made right before the buzz-crushing ultra-conservative religious right backlash against the gloriously loose'n'libertine permissiveness of the 70's took hold, this wonderfully wild'n'raucous animated sci-fi/horror/fantasy anthology film gleefully wallows in excessive graphic violence, crass leering objectification of the amply proportioned female form (buxom ladies only, please), and a wickedly funny line in cheery low-brow humor. This movie sure ain't politically correct -- and that's exactly why it's such a hugely enjoyable blast from the funky early 80's past.<br /><br />An evil glowing orb called the Loknar (the supremely sinister and velvet smooth voice of Percy Rodriguez) spreads its malign influence throughout the decades and galaxies. First tale, "Harry Canyon" - Cynical cabbie Harry (marvelously voiced to weary perfection by veteran character actor Richard Romanus of "Mean Streets") gets involved with a sexy young lass in a bleak and rundown futuristic New York. Second yarn, "Den" - A nerdy teenager (affably voiced by the late, great John Candy) winds up on another planet where he's transformed into a bald and brawny behemoth. Third romp, "Captain Sternn" - Sleazy scoundrel Captain Sternn stands on trail for his many heinous indiscretions. John Vernon scores strongly as the angry voice of the prosecuting attorney. Fourth opus, "B-17" - A very creepy and gruesome World War II zombie outing. Fifth vignette, "So Beautiful and So Dangerous" - A couple of wacky aliens and their goofy robot buddy abduct a sassy hot Jewish chick. Harold Ramis and Eugene Levy are hilarious as the Cheech and Chong-style stoner pilots of a giant smiley face spaceship. Candy once again is a delight as the voice of the charming and amorous robot. Sixth outing, "Taarna" - A lethal and lovely mute warrior woman mixes it up with a vicious horde of nasty marauders.<br /><br />Boy, does this picture rate highly as the ideal guy flick: we've got a fantastic roaring rock soundtrack (Cheap Trick, Black Sabbath, Devo, Grand Funk Railroad, Nazareth, Blue Oyster Cult, Journey, Stevie Nicks and much more), plenty of sidesplitting sophomoric humor, stunningly voluptuous and often naked women, a handy helping of gore, a nice smattering of soft-core sex, a blithely breezy'n'carefree tone, and no pretense whatsoever to get in the way of the infectiously trashy fun. The strikingly stylized and varied animation is suitably vivid and garish throughout. Elmer Bernstein's lush majestic orchestral score likewise hits the spot. A real cool treat that's wholly deserving of its cult status.