Abbott and Costello's first major success, this film was a tremendous hit in its day and wound up beating 'great' films like CITIZEN KANE and HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY when 1941's box office receipts were counted up for the end of the year. There is not doubt that BUCK PRIVATES feels extremely out of touch with today's times, but then again why shouldn't it? This is a movie that's supposed to be taking place in the early 1940's, not the 21st century. It's like a period piece that means only to portray the times in which it was made.<br /><br />The comedy duo accidentally enlist in the U.S. Army (an overdone cliché perhaps, but what the heck) and we're treated to humorous routines and some merry song and dance, making it feel like this was the place to be in 1940. Now, for fans of Abbott & Costello, there are plenty of good gags that are perfectly rendered at this early phase of the team's movie career. Gems include: "You're 40, she's 10", "Dice Game", "Don't Play That Radio!!," and "Let Me Borrow 40 Dollars And You Owe Me 10". There's also a classic skit with Abbott commanding a hilarious army drill, and Costello becomes involved in a boxing match with a big brute. Both comedians were at the peak of their powers at this point, and so they're right on the money in all their routines.<br /><br />As good as the boys are, there are other staples to contend with, which would be an ongoing factor throughout many of their 1940s films. There are several musical numbers strewn amidst the comedy, here courtesy of The Andrews Sisters. In comedies such as this, these performances definitely tend to weigh things down and one's mileage will definitely vary as to whether they're a help or a hindrance. While I have to say that I personally don't find the homely Andrews' gals to be that much to look at, I do think they've got charisma and sing well. So I don't mind their sweet harmonizing every so often, plus the songs themselves aren't bad (I can't dislike "The Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy"). This was made at a time where going to the theatre was a full night out; not only to experience the funny antics of Bud and Lou, but also to enjoy a set of music and dancing for your money, too. All the same, there were future films (for me) where the musical interludes weren't so hot and did become extremely annoying. Somehow, it all gels pretty well within the "Happy Army" atmosphere of BUCK PRIVATES.<br /><br />One thing that does irk me is whenever another character we're not all that concerned with gets too much screen time when it's mainly A&C we're hoping to see. In this case, a little too much footage is devoted to the side story of a couple of other male leads who are at odds with one another yet manage to also enlist in the army along with Bud and Lou. But we also get an appearance by Shemp Howard (one of the Three Stooges) as a cook, and that's never a bad thing.