What can one say about their favorite movie? A movie that would make one laugh, in suspense, excited, and even touched. A film that takes two personalities which clash, and learn to get along with each other, to where they actually care for one another in the end. A film that touches one's soul, is a film that one can consider to be their favorite of all time. Robert De Niro plays Jack Walsh, a ex-Chicago police officer who is currently a bounty hunter. He works in Los Angeles for Eddie Moscone (Joe Pantoliano) who is a bail bonds man. Eddie offers Jack a job to catch and bring back the infamous Jonathan "the Duke" Markukas (Charles Grodin). Jonathan is a accountant who stole millions of Jimmy Serrano's (Dennis Farina) money, and gave it all to charity. Jonathan jumped bail and is in hiding. Jack needs to find John, bring him to the L.A. county jail within four days, and Jack will collect 100 thousand dollars. Jack does find John, in New York City, the first day. But Jack has many people following him. First there's the FBI, led by Alonzo Mosely (Yaphet Kotto) who wants John to testify against Jimmy Serrano. Second there's Tony Darvo (Richard Foronjy) and Robert Miranda (Joey), two dim-wits working for Serrano, who want John dead. Then there is Marvin Dofler (John Ashton), another bounty hunter who wants John also, but for a smaller price.<br /><br /> From there on, it's a cross country trip which involve all of the men looking for Jack and John. A film which has some very exciting moments with action. Other moments where the scenes are intense where Jack and John's lives are in danger. And scenes where the two men share each other's thoughts and feelings, which surprisingly makes the movie touching. The acting by De Niro is at his best. He does his usual tough guy attitude, but he also mixes it with some humor, and emotions. Charles Grodin is also great as the sensitive accountant who is the exact opposite of Jack's personality. And Dennis Farina is funny and scary as the outraged mob boss who has a vicious attitude. The music by Danny Elfman, I find to be his career best. It's not like his famous BATMAN, BETTLEJUICE, or SLEEPY HOLLOW style of score. It's more like a mixture classic Chicago rhythm and blues, which even Elfman himself considered to be his most unusual score. The writing by George Gallo is also excellent. He manages to fit a cross country story within two hours of time, while still bringing out personalities of the characters and making sure there are no holes in the plot. He also manages to have some very funny scenes involving Jack and John. And the direction by Martin Brest is outstanding. He keeps the movie at a very fast pace, without any slowing down. He does brilliant moves like having De Niro and Grodin improvising their lines while arguing. Brest also does a great job by making the film enjoyable for it's 125 minutes. This is a movie that touched me, it can be considered a "man's" movie on the surface. But take apart this film, and it's also a film that women can enjoy also. The most emotional scenes involve Jack seeing his ex-wife and daughter after not seeing them for ten years. It shows that everybody makes a mistake in life, and that we can all try to forgive people that emotionally hurt us. People say that one can identify a person's personality by the movies and music that they like. To find out what I am like, pop in this movie into your DVD player or VCR, and you'll see. Saying this movie is better than CITIZEN KANE, STAR WARS, GODFATHER, and GONE WITH THE WIND is a pretty bold statement. But, the character of Jack Walsh shows my personality. This is the way I am, therefore it's my favorite movie of all time. And I'm not the only one, Robert De Niro said on a interview on Oprah Winfrey, that this is his most enjoyable film that he's done. ***** (out of five; THE BEST MOVIE OF ALL TIME)