The Awful Truth is an old-time humorous-type movie picture what your grandparents like to watch on the old-time movie channel because it takes 'em back some sixty years. Your grandparents aren't loving it 'cause o' some brilliant-type screenplay or some clever-type editing job. They love Cary Grant and Irene Dunne together. I happen to like it for the same reason. Cary Grant and I coulda been buddies. He's a really funny guy, and standing next ta him woulda made me look more handsome than I am. Irene Dunne? If only I could whistle on a freaking keyboard.<br /><br />The narrative-type story starts off with Cary boy coming back home from one o' those business trips, if ya know the kind I mean, but he finds Irene, his wife, his out someplace. When she gets back, she's got some fresh European music teacher what Cary finds out she spent the night in the country with, after her car, you know, broke down, or so she says. Then, she finds out Cary didn't go on no trip. So they divorce. She starts trying' ta get her mind offa him by getting friendly with some big lug of a hick but then realizes she still loves Cary Grant.<br /><br />I wouldn't wanna give nothing away 'cause then that'll spoil it for ya and I'm no jerk. But I tell ya, I was rolling on the floor over here, busting' up with laughter and such. Ain't nobody gonna blame Cary Grant for being' in love with Irene Dunne. I mean, she ain't just beautiful. She's a funny broad. And ain't no person gonna blame Irene Dunne for wanting Cary back. I mean, I'm no fruit or nothing, but if I was, in a hypothetical, completely hypothetical-type situation, I would certainly be giving Irene a run for her money, not that I would though 'cause I ain't no fruit. And their dog is a hoot! I wish I could get my mangy mutt to do some o' the stuff the dog in this picture does.<br /><br />This is one o' my favorite movie pictures. If you ain't seen it, you betta get to it if ya know what's good for you. And if you don't like it, I'll bust ya freaking head open. Cary Grant and Irene Dunne are freaking beautiful together. It's like a match made in Heaven, for Chrissakes.