Cary Grant, an up-and-coming actor in the mid-1930's, fortuitously teamed with the more established Irene Dunne for the first of three fruitful pairings in this archetypal 1937 screwball comedy directed with finesse by Leo McCarey. The result is one of the era's breeziest concoctions, an uninhibited farce based on suspected marital infidelity that has the stars bickering and bantering with precision and élan. It's easy to see how Grant became a full-fledged star with this film as his persona already seems fully formed from his droll one-liners to his acrobatic pratfalls. He dexterously balances the urbane and everyman aspects of his personality as Park Avenue social dandy Jerry Warriner.<br /><br />Adapted by screenwriter Viña Delmar from a 1921 Arthur Richman play, the featherweight plot begins with Jerry and his equally gadabout wife Lucy living carefree amid their luxuriant surroundings and wealthy social circle, but the couple experiences a misunderstanding over each other's whereabouts. Both are so smug and proud that neither apologizes for the trouble each causes the other. In fact, they rashly decide to divorce, and a custody battle ensues over their pet terrier, Mr. Smith, the same dog who played Asta in the Thin Man series and later the bone-stealing George in Bringing Up Baby. With their jealousy peaked, Lucy and Jerry try to sabotage each other's next serious relationship - Jerry with priggish, suspicious heiress Barbara Vance and Lucy with wealthy Oklahoma oilman Dan Leeson. Things inevitably spiral out of control as the final divorce decree approaches.<br /><br />Perhaps the most criminally overlooked of the top actresses during Hollywood's golden era, Dunne not only matches Grant's comedic skills here but shows off her impressive singing talent. Along with her insinuating laugh, she has a sophisticated but down-to-earth manner that makes her the classic screwball heroine. Look for the hilarious scene where she pretends to be Jerry's tawdry, heavy-drinking sister Lola. A specialist in playing the third point in romantic triangles, Ralph Bellamy is likeably lunk-headed as Dan, and there are sharp comic turns by Cecil Cunningham as no-nonsense Aunt Patsy and Joyce Compton as nightclub chanteuse Dixie Belle Lee. According to Hollywood lore, McCarey encouraged Grant and Dunne to improvise much of their dialogue. If true, their rapport is especially impressive here. The 2003 DVD offers no extras.