[MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS]<br /><br /> The Newton family is back and so is Beethoven. It's been a while since their last adventure. One particular morning, after Beethoven is awakened from his dream of steaks, he walks himself around the park and notices a female St. Bernard. Her name is Missy. She and her owner were buying ice cream, but right at that moment, a woman who's quite nasty and has no heart for dogs shows up. Her name is Regina. She was married to Missy's owner until they got a divorce, so Regina feels she has the right to take the dog. So she does. Then she and her dimwited boyfriend Floyd take off. But Beethoven knows where they've taken Missy and everyday he goes to visit. Ted and Emily follow him one day and see that Beethoven and Missy have had puppies. They take the puppies with them so they won't be discovered by Regina. The kids hide the puppies in the basement, but also learn they won't eat. Their only hope is to do it manually with a veterenarian's perscription. Only problem: they've got to do it more than once, so they wake up early in the morning and cut classes. Alice finds out about why that is happening, and also finds out about the puppies. She says not to tell George. But George eventually finds out and says they cannot keep them. But of course, sympathy worked and the puppies were allowed to stay.<br /><br />The kids named them: Dolly, Chubby, Tchikowski, and Mo. The puppies really grow on the family. I mean they get real big and constantly get on George's nerves. Also, the family will be taking a vacation in the mountains so they must bring all the dogs with them. It's a nice cabin. But someone else was also up there. Regina and Floyd. They're hiding out, as it were. Ryce meets a new boyfriend who treats her like nothing, so she meets another one and he's much nicer. They go to the county fair the following day where George get's signed up for an eating contest, involving eating the most burgers in only a few minutes. He and Beethoven did it. Then, Regina showed up and snatched the puppies and took them into the mountains. Beethoven and Missy followed, so did the Newtons. There's a showdown in the mountains, and soon Regina and Floyd fall into the river and are given the ride they deserve. Some months later, back at home, Missy's old owner shows up and says everything is fine and Regina get's nothing. He also asks to see the "kids", so George, Alice, and Beethoven call the enourmous puppies downstairs.<br /><br /> Just as good as the first. I recommend this movie. If you liked the first one, you will like this one. See it when you can. +