I get so tired seeing heroin thin, twenty-somethings in romantic comedies, especially ones with lots of nudity. This one has the luminous Susie Porter reclining, pacing and prancing around nude, with the most fantastic confidence and comfort with her body. She doesn't have the perfect body mind you, but the type that I love more than a Hagen-Daz milkshake. She's got some meat on her bones, but she isn't fat. She is voluptuous, curvaceous, with the sweetest milky white, freckled skin. Her smile can take your breath away, and her eyes seem like they can see every lie you've ever told, and you want her to know. She's a WOMAN, a real woman, not some kid trying to be a woman. Most times with *women* you get lots of trying to be younger, but Susie LIVES in her body, her soul is older, wiser and more mature. She knows how to treat a man too. She lets a guy be a guy without sacrificing her will or self-esteem. Oh, I'm supposed to review this movie... OK...<br /><br />Basically in this excellent flick you are watching two adults fall in love. Both are mature and confident, but they're leery of jumping into a relationship, but it never lingers on past baggage, and nobody needs to "get free" of some obstacle before they can continue. I've found that women rarely say they're ready for love, or looking for love, but if it presents itself to them they won't chase it off. Basically a woman is never NOT ready to fall in love, and this movie does a great job of showing men how a woman who isn't even THINKING about falling in love, can. It also illustrates luxuriously how head games, lies and bullsh*t are NOT the way to enjoy falling in love. Most young people think that head games are the only way to get what you want, or how to protect your heart, which is toss-all. Here two people say what they mean and mean what they say, and what they don't say they don't say because they're not sure yet that they feel it.<br /><br />Have you ever met someone and it just clicked and while it was clicking you spent a day or three in bed? This movie sumptuously wallows in that intoxicating experience. These two people devour each other sexually and while they do, passion blossoms and intimacy becomes more and more desirable. I can't remember a movie that so eloquently illustrates the difference between lust and passion, between sex and intimacy.<br /><br />Buy this movie now, you will not regret it, but watch it with a lover because watching it while you're single will make you jones too much for the real thing and that could be depressing. View it with someone you love and it could re-kindle a little magic, it will at least get you laughing and getting aroused in the same room.<br /><br />A movie about adults for adults that makes you feel like a kid.