You know, I've never been a big fan of rap culture, but I thought that the film in question, "Stop Snitchin', Stop Lying", while it does have some incredibly stupid and/or unintentionally hilarious parts, actually was enjoyable enough for me to watch all the way through. Basically, the film chronicles rapper The Game ( I will call him Mr. Watkins from now on, because that's his real name) as he goes on his "world tour" (now that I think about it, I don't think he went anywhere except for Norway and the U.S., but what do I know), and tries to find 50 Cent, so he can try to get him to explain why he ratted out a member of the group (I think that's what it was). Along the way, Mr. Watkins explains his life story to the audience, gets arrested in North Carolina, meets a veritable group of fans from all over the U.S., and tries to dispel the rumors of his breakup with 50 Cent and the "G-Unit" (to which Mr. Watkins now effectively calls the "G-UNOT"). Needless to say, it does get a little dry at times, and there are parts which are funny like you wouldn't believe (Atkins making an impassioned plea to 50 Cent to help him release Irv Gotti, the supposed "re-enactment" of 50 Cent confessing to a police officer, the guy being driven around yelling at some woman who is supposedly a man) and the video quality is very shoddy. However, the one thing I took away from this experience is that Mr. Watkins genuinely loves his fans. And, bless his soul, he seems to do a lot for them. We see in this film that Watkins personally reads fan mail and signs copies of every album sent to him (before sending them back), and that he's not above meeting new faces and friends on the street. I don't think I've ever seen one rap artist do that, and, to be honest, when Mr. Watkins said he was doing all this for the fans, I believed him. He may get a bad rap because of his narcissistic and childish demeanor, and he may be a very rich person, but he loves his work and the people who respect his work, and personally, I think that's the only thing that matters.<br /><br />Bottom Line: If you're a fan of The Game or of rap music in general, give this one a look. It's a heck of a lot better than that "Get Rich Or Die Trying" film.