This western begins with a robbery masterminded by Max Reno (Ted de Corsia) aided by his new partner, gun expert Jay Turner. Turner asks for his share from the voluble Max, who pays him off then shoots him in the back. He is saved by Maria Salvador. Reno plays cards in Del Rey; breaking the house, then he forces a partnership onto the saloon's owner, planning to import "soiled doves", build a stage, cheapen the place. When the other objects, Reno shoots him and Kirby (Lee Van Cleef), becomes his new aide; the sheriff, a reformed drunk, goes along with Reno for the money. Maria, (Pamela Duncan) nurses Jay, and falls in love with him;. He thinks only of revenge and rides off, searching every town. Finding Reno's new place, he sees Reno's gunhands dragging bundles of the latest issue of a newspaper; the editor objects but Van Cleef hurls him into the dust. Hayden rescues him and introduces himself as John York. Reno knew him so short a time, he cannot be sure if he is Jay Turner when he enters the saloon. Reno says he is saving half this place for his partner, but York still plays dumb and takes a room. Cleo, his smartest girl, beloved by Kirby, is sent to find out about the man; She sees the scars in his back. But he says, "Tell him I'm York". She does. Reno lets Kirby, who fancies himself a gunhand, try to kill him. York plays cards, badly, to show he is not the expert card player Turner was; then Kirby challenges him. York beats Kirby up. When he goes for a gun, he disarms him. Reno disowns him, so Kirby goes for Reno and is pistol whipped. York drags him through the town to the lockup. The crowd has the Sheriff make him deputy. Reno's men abduct York to kill him. York digs his grave under two guns, but the two men drink so he is able to clobber both. Soon he finds Kirby has killed the drunken sheriff. Kirby could go with Cleo but he heads for the saloon, to kill Reno. York enters, and by a fast draw, kills Kirby, then talks the mob out of a hanging. The Editor backs him, reminding them they want Reno gone. York promises he will take him to hang. Reno is furious when he hears the real plan later --Turner is taking him back to Monterey to die--for the murder of his partner! That night, Reno tries to kill him with a rock; Turner sends him into the desert and picks him up later. giving him just enough water to go on. "It's a long way to Monterey", Reno sneers. In Monterey, Turner turns Reno over to the law. Reno tries to say York is Jay Turner; but this is the sheriff who had found his bullet-riddled jacket. Turner goes to Maria. She tells him when he explains his action, that what he has done is wrong, that they cannot build a life together on such a lie. He finally understands, turns himself in to the sheriff and joins Reno in a cell. Reno says "I forgive you for everything." "You're a big man, Reno," Turner says. "And smart too," Reno insists. He notes he would have had the girl turn them in--for the reward! Turner laughs with him, then slugs him on the jaw and settles in, to serve his sentence and return to Maria. <br /><br />Cinematography for this attractive B/W western was done by Harry Neumann; the directors were Sidney Franklin and Carl L. Hittleman. The script was by Jack Leonard and Lawrence Reisner. Robert Wiley Miller did music with "Shenandoah" as the main theme, with art direction by David Milton, sets by Joseph Kish. Sterling Hayden is strong, but Ted de Corsia, radio's most versatile actor, does award-level work as Reno. Young Lee Van Cleef is handsome as Kirby. Mary Beth Hughes makes the most of her role as Cleo; Pamela Duncan is sincere as Maria. Charles Cane as the drunken sheriff, Fred Sherman as the murdered saloon owner, I. Stanford Jolley, Mauritz Hugo, Pat Comiskey, and Byron Foulger all do fine work. Tight, memorable, a satisfying narrative by my lights, the makers can be proud of this film.