Animal Instincts has quite a cast of characters for such a trashy movie. The delectable Shannon Whirry(the camera worships every inch of her succulent, ravishing body)is the bored wife of an underpaid cop who is consumed with money and what it brings. David Carradine is a drug-dealing pimp who operates a strip club and is tired of councilman Jan Michael Vincent, on a crusade against titty bars so that he can be elected mayor. Maxwell Kaulfield is the cop husband of Whirry who catches her in bed with the cable repair man and finds that he is aroused seeing his wife having hot sex with other johns. Setting up camera equipment and recording Whirry's trysts with powerful men such as lawyer, doctors, and other prominent clientèle offers an opportunity for Kaulfield to make some easy cash, and attempts to blackmail, through Carradine, Vincent when they have him on tape screwing around with an unknown woman in a mask. Sleazy premise provides director Gregory Dark with a chance to film soft-core sex between Whirry and a host of men(..and Delia Sheppard who actually offers to take her to Paris!). We get to see her in lots of lingerie and plenty times naked. John Saxon stops by at the tail end of the movie, an attorney representing Whirry and Kaulfield, feeding the press a cock-n-bull story about a woman's case of nymphomania due to a reaction towards a prescribed drug and how her husband was actually attempting to help her with such a problem by addressing what it was that affected their sex life. Carradine seems right at home in this smut and Whirry is rather comfortable and uninhibited in front of the camera performing..for quite a jubilant audience, I presume(..unless you are bothered and/or disturbed by the naked body of a gorgeous woman). The material is quite raunchy, but photographed in such a seductive way, mainly because, in my opinion, Whirry commands your attention. And, she has this smooth voice and soft lips which can only heighten her hypnotic grasp over you if you are willing to let go, allowing her to work her magic spell. The film is told in flashback with Whirry interviewed by a journalist, as she returns us to her story's origins. Many of the sex scenes are cut rather short, not getting too explicit. Vincent and Saxon have roles that aren't that significant, with each maybe in the movie five minutes tops. Carradine, however, makes quite an impression, he's such a maleficent, poisonous creature, and has some memorably depraved dialogue, where his character speaks fondly of his profession, the kind of man he is, pride evident in how he talks about himself.