I base this review on the Complete Version. This is the first of the series I've played, except for a minimal portion of the second one. Thus, I cannot compare this to the earlier ones. I can, however, say that this is incredible, and has gotten me to look at the ones that came later in the franchise. It features six campaigns, of slightly varying length, as well as growing difficulty. All of the story is told through them, as well as the well-done(if dated, today) CGI cut-scenes. The plot, which is memorable and takes a few unexpected turns, takes you through an entire war over who rules Erathia. I mean that in the StarCraft type way... you get to fight on both sides, and conquer as well as defend. You get more than two... let's call them species, even though it doesn't apply as well here as in a lot of other titles. In fact, there are eight, and they span from human(with knights, Pikemen and Angels), through Dungeon(with Troglodytes, Minotaurs and Medusas) and to the forces of the dead(with Skeletons, Zombies and Vampires). Heck, this thing is filled to the brim with mythological beings(dragons, elementals, genies, etc.) and abilities(resurrection, flight, striking twice and others). The detail in this is astounding. All of the design work is imaginative and amazing. There is an immense amount of different units, and they are all sufficiently distinguished. This helps making the battles interesting(during them is the only time of this that you can't save your progress). The system for them plays a big part in that, as well. They can be reminiscent of good chess matches... honestly, the whole thing can. This is turn-based strategy and role playing, and it's full of freedom and coincidental occurrences. All the choices you make can prove to be important, as can the chances you take. This randomization means that you can try the same areas of the game multiple times, and it won't be the same. Plus, there are quite a few levels, the size of them being potentially tiny or huge, or anywhere in-between those poles. And if that's not enough, this comes with a Map Editor, easy to use, with an intuitive interface, *and* it can make them compatible with either of the expansion packs. The quality may depend on the one making it, but anyone can use the program. It's not limited, like a Generator, rather, you can customize a lot. Not anywhere near as much as the one that comes with StarCraft, no... on the other hand, this has something that that one doesn't: a "validate" option, that lets you know about any objective shortcomings. The way the mood of this is establishing is excellent. Every little bit of the beautifully done, orchestral score is masterful and a perfect fit. Audio in this is, in general, great. All the effects sound just right. The tone is spot-on. This has nice graphics. They may not hold up today, nevertheless, the movements look natural and the magic looks spectacular. The animation is impeccable. While I am by no means well-versed in the world of RPG, from what I understand of how it is played with cards and dice, the game-play of this does a fine job of putting that on the computer. You move your Heroes around, collecting, engaging in combat and gaining XP for themselves, experience points, to improve their skills, most literally represented in the four main ones, Attack, Defend, Power and Knowledge, the latter 2 translating into how strong the spells(which you of course have to find, learn or trade between them) you cast are, and how many of them you can use before recharging them, respectively. It's all very entertaining, and once you get into it, it can be addictive. Several of the artifacts, I defy anyone not to get a kick out of getting a hold of and using. Want to walk on water? And that's only one example. I'll leave discovering the massive, vast number of things in this... to utilize against your opponents, or vice versa... to each individual person who tries this. That's part of the fun of this. Multi-player is magnificent and doesn't actually necessitate an internet connection or LAN, although it can be done on them, so it's wide open. No, 8 people, the maximum that can play, can sit at one machine and go at it with one another. Like RTS releases... note that this is not one, it is not real time, all actions in this are based on taking turns... this has you constructing buildings, gathering resources, putting together armies, managing it all and taking out your opponents. The AI, marvelous, by the way, smart and adaptive, has about half a dozen settings for how smart they are, and how well-equipped they start out, so absolute new-comers, as well as seasoned veterans can get a challenge that they can beat. You can spend countless hours on this. There are so many things to explore. A bunch of "worlds", with lava, "underground", oceans, you can sail, and find objects out there, as well, such as buoys that'll restore spirit to your men, sirens that you may or may not wish to go near, and whirlpools that transport you back and forth, at the cost of troops going overboard. There are no real shortcomings, if you like this type of thing. If you're unsure about that, try a demo. I have not run into a single bug or glitch, nor any problems with the stability. This is so mild and inoffensive(without sacrificing anything, it genuinely doesn't feel like they had to PG it up), apart from stuff that may upset some religious people, that everyone, any age, can enjoy it. There is no language, violence is bloodless and not disturbing, and sexuality goes no further than a risqué costume here and there. I recommend this to any fan of these kinds of games, those who like medieval times, and anyone into fantasy. 9/10