Well, the title says it all. Guess who is back in town to terrorize the young, coming of age youth living on or near the vicinity of Elm Street? If you said Freddy Kruger, you'd be right! Nothing unexpected here except as sequels go, this one is really pretty weak. A new family move into "the house" where a girl had previously gone mad. The teenage boy, played with little conviction by Mark Patton, starts to see visions of Freddy who wants to recruit him to kill. We see lots of the same images as in the first one, but what we don't see is any of the sense of style, menace, or suspense that was used in the original. Why? This film was directed by Jack Sholder - not a household name nor a very competent director at this stage in his career. Wes Craven did not make the sequel and it shows. The death scenes are not very graphic or even scary. There is a bizarre wrap-a-round story about Freddy driving a bus, a huge party at a house with loads of stupid teen stereotypes, and a sadistic coach that spends his nights at a gay bar wearing leather. OK, I guess. Kim Myers plays the female love interest, and she is very easy on the eyes if nothing else. None of the actors - including Robert Englund - stand out. Clu Gulager and Hope Lange(my, how the mighty have fallen) appear as the parents of Patton. Englund doesn't have a lot of meat in this role. Some of his lines seem very strained. Although populated with ridiculous scenes a plenty, two stand out for me. First, the coach is in a locker room where all kinds of physical equipment start moving all over the place. It's a real hoot - not even close to being scary. The zenith; however, of ridiculous scenes is when Patton and family, after having just covered up what appear to be two lovebirds, see the cage rock back and forth and the birds spontaneously combust. It looked like an interactive game of asteroids! The most amazing thing about this film is that it did not kill this series. Had it been able to do that, then I could say something nice about it!