I will agree with the majority of the people on this comment database that this show is intended to guide children in young ages and teach them lessons and politeness and what and what is and isn't right. But, they could've selected another group of characters to use instead of the Looney Toons.<br /><br />The Looney Toons are obviously an old cluster of cartoon shows dating back to the 1930's to the 1950's, or around that generation. Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck, Sylvester and Tweety and the Tazmanian Devil are some of the primary characters out of the Looney Toons. I know who Elmer Fudd, Foghorn Leghorn and Porky Pig are, but they are slightly less popular. But who in the world are these girl characters? The girl bunny, the girl pig and the girl duck? I have watched my share of Looney Toons shows even though I was born in 1993, and I know enough to know, that these feminine characters only appear once in a great while on the Looney Toons. Usually these girl characters were used as an attempt to trick or daze another character. Most of the time, the girl characters were actually male characters in disguise.<br /><br />What makes me mad about this is, the generation today is filled too much with rules and regulations that aren't exactly and necessarily fair. While it is in good nature to include females in television shows and other activities such as votings and protests, it is getting a little ridiculous to include so many girls into the Looney Toons group. These female characters hardly existed, no-one knows who they are. Also notice how they are the same type of animal as the male characters. The female bunny is obviously the counterpart to Bugs Bunny. The female pig is the counterpart to Porky Pig and the female Duck is the counterpart to Daffy Duck. These female characters just completely ruin the show for me, completely turns me off. They are not humorous, they are not even special in any way shape or form. They are just THERE, and I wish they wouldn't be.<br /><br />Also, as someone else stated, if this took place when the Looney Toons were babies, it would've been around the 1920's or 1930's at least. Laptops, modern phones and televisions would not have been thought of yet. More common sense was apparently needed before the airing of the show.<br /><br />And lastly, it is annoying that "granny" gets the role of a lovable old woman in charge of these, claimed-to-be, adorable little baby animals. This "granny" character was originally a mean old witch who protected Tweety Bird and beat Sylvester when necessary. I cannot even think how many times "Granny" nearly killed Sylvester in the original Looney Toons. Talk about a change of attitude in these children's adolescence.