As much as I could complain about the first film though I would have to say that at least it wasn't Freddy's Revenge, quite possibly the worst sequel in history. First of all revenge against who? I was under the impression that Freddy was out for revenge in the first film, and was just plain murderizing people for no reason in this one. Anyway all that aside and I have to say that the film transcends dumbness, Freddy wants to possess a boys body so that he can kill kids who are awake, a good idea,. He completely exits the dream world and becomes another mundane movie villain is not such a good idea, and the scene where he comes ripping out of said characters stomach is just about the worst mistake in the history of bad mistakes. What about the visuals though, any creepy dream scenes, or fancy killings? Nope, here we have a gay Nazi coach being S&M whipped with skipping ropes, dogs with human faces, and the absolute horror of horrors in an insane budgie. Clearly time for a change of underpants then, because you know you really should be changing them every day.<br /><br />The writing takes the poor script in the original and asks a trained chimpanzee to try and improve on it, which most fans generally admit was a bad mistake. Freddy is no longer creepy, his dream world makes just one noticeable appearance, his real world powers make no sense, and his choice of killing methods lack even a hint of imagination. What's more the choice of actors is beyond lame, with lead actor Mark Patton being one of the most irritating dopey little twits I've ever seen. Jack Sholder's direction lacks so much as a hint of style, and the film is just generally lacks anything to really make me want to discuss it in depth. The only things positive in the film are that once again Englund is superb as Freddy and that Meryle Streep lookalike Kim Myers was a total babe, which is odd considering I find Streep to be ugly as hell. Overall this one is definitely a 0/5 contender. I'm certainly not a major fan of the original, but you know what, I still hate this film as one of the worst ever made.