An excellent sequel, that's very underrated, and lots of fun!. I liked how they tried to go for something different (it's quite bizarre at times) and it had a lot of gay undertones, but i found it very amusing, and all the characters were great, and did there jobs very well!, plus the score was excellent! and the 2 main leads were great!. A Lot of people think this is the worst of the series, i would have to say no, in fact it's one of the best of the series, it's at times creepy, hilarious and overall just a lot of fun, the pool party is especially fun times!. Freddy is not quite the One Liner comedian yet (although he is funny), he cracks a few jokes here and there, but mostly he still lurks in this shadows, he's still creepy, and we still take him quite seriously, he still means business! and has a wicked and creepy laugh. The Opening is great, as is the ending, plus if you look closely, you will see that's Robert Englund driving the bus , in the opening. The Direction is very good!. Jack Sholder does an excellent job here, with great lighting, great camera angles. good zoom in's, created a creepy atmosphere, great use of color, and overall he did a great job!. There is actually a fair amount of blood and gore here. We get Freddy's gory face throughout the flick, Freddy's revealed brain, gory dead bird, back ripped open with claws, Freddy comes out of Jesse's body (very neat, and very gory), gory slashings, gory claw stabbing, gory wound, melting face, and quite a bit of blood! Decent. The Acting is very good!. Mark Patton does a great job here, he hit all the right emotional notes, was vulnerable, likable and had very good chemistry with Kim Meyers!. Kim Meyers is also very good here, she is very likable, very beautiful, and felt for her in some scenes. Rober Rustler is Excellent here!, he was my favorite character here, he is hilarious very likable, and overall just seemed like a fun guy!. Robert Englund is GREAT here, he is creepy, funny and was a lot of fun to watch, plus he really liked to mess with people's minds, and he had a lot of great Quotes!(Englund Rules!). Clu Gulager and Hope Lange are both great as Jesse's parents and both had pretty good chemistry. Marhsall Bell is very good as the unlikable gym teacher. Christie Clark is decent as the daughter. Overall i HIGHLY HIGHLY recommend the sequel and it's sadly very underrated. **** out of 5