Plot = 5 years after the events of the first movie, a new teen and his family move into the same house where the events occurred and before long Jesse starts getting haunted by Freddy but this time Freddy wants something else other than blood.<br /><br />I've rated this movie before and gave it a five and a pretty bad review but after viewing this movie a few more times I actually quite enjoyed it, OK it's not the best in the franchise, but it's still good and that's why I deleted my old review and started afresh. This sequel stands on its own, following its own rules without ignoring the original. This flick is basically a haunted house/possession flick with lots of weird stuff going on. Its not particularly scary but it is very spooky. The film also delivers in the gross out department, the scene where Freddy comes out of Jesse's chest is plain old fun times for the whole family. This sequel has many homosexual undertones. I mean the coach gets his ass whipped with a towel by Freddy (kinky bastard), Jesse ventures in a gay SNM bar, Jesse gets down with Lisa but then abruptly leaves her hanging to go sleep at Brady's house. This whole film could be a metaphor for a kid coming to grasp with his gay penchant. Jesse keeps on saying there's something inside of him that wants to come outmaybe Freddy equals his pansy side. Lots of people had problems with the gay stuff, I had a blastfunny shite. Ironically the actor that plays Jesse (Mark Patton) is gay in real lifego figure. Lisa's attraction and commitment to crazy Jesse did elude me, the guy is such a geek! But my main problem with the film is the anticlimactic ending. The ending feels rushed and his far from satisfying. The whole love conquer all shite was rubbish.<br /><br />Mark Patton (Jesse) handles himself real well. He hits all the right emotional notes, too bad he screams like a girl and can't dress for shite. I thought gay men knew fashion. Kim Meyers (Lisa) is also very good Robert Rustler (Grady) has all the best lines and he's just way kool. The kind of guy I'd hang with. Clu Gulager (Ken) and Hope Lange (Cheryl) do good as the parents, they have wonderful chemistry and are very credible. Marshall Bell (Coach) is the scariest thing in the flick. Robert Englund (Freddy) has more screen time and gets to explore Freddy. Here Fred is more playful and has more lines. But fear not he's still scary, cruel and in the shadows.<br /><br />All in all quite a good follow up.