From the very first frames 3 Deewarein grips you and won't let go. This very well may be the best movie of its kind I have ever seen an *any* language. In fact, apart from the subtitles, you might just forget that you're watching an Indian film. Even the normal liberties that Bollywood normally takes with the concept of "suspension of disbelief" (and that Bolly fans have come to accept) are mostly absent from this movie. The characters are deep, intense and best of all completely credible. Others here have hailed 3 Deewarein as Juhi Chawla's comeback film, and she certainly shines in her role. But perhaps more surprising to me was Jackie Shroff's performance. Shroff's typical roles haven't impressed me one way or the other -- as especially good or bad -- in most other movies I've seen him in. But his portrayal of "Jaggu" here definitely made me sit up and take notice. And left me wondering how much of my former indifference was due to Jackie, and how much was due to the scripts he's been working from. Nasserudin Shah presents another complex and lovable character in "Ishaan". While not quite as endearing as the title role in "Shree 420", "Ishaan" certainly shares some qualities with that character.<br /><br />The story might be best compared to a pointillist painting. In the beginning we see very narrow views from very close angles. It's only as the plot unfolds and we back away from the canvas that we see the actual picture. And the canvas itself is impressive and elegantly understated. The opening sequences -- shot in blue-toned monochrome -- introduce the story in very short order (the entire run time of the film is listed at 120 minutes, which by Bollywood standards almost qualifies as a "short subject") and there is nothing wasted during the exposition. And it's because of this that you are drawn in immediately and rooted for the duration.<br /><br />I cannot bring myself to write anything that would hint at the ending of the story. To do that here would be to do you and the film a grave injustice. Let it suffice to say that the ending was not even *remotely * what I expected.<br /><br />If you're only a fan of "Masti-Masala" fare, don't watch this movie. You will be disappointed. But if you can spare two hours to be engrossed by a story that is at times grim, and times heartwarming and most of all surprising you *need* to see this film. From casting to camera to script, this is an astonishing work.