This TV movie, "Wheels of Terror", was released to the small screen in 1990 (TV movie). Starring Joanna Cassidy and Marcie Leeds, this freaky and sadistic thriller is about a young lady (played by Cassidy) who works as a school bus driver and her young daughter (played by Leeds). They had moved to the country to get away from being city folks. This story is about a very sadistic, evil, and scary looking black car (the driver's identity is anonymous) that abducts, molests, and kills young girls. What was really shocking was the bus driver's daughter being taken right in front of her mother's eyes, and she begins a desperate attempt to track down the hideous car and get her daughter back safe and sound and hopefully unharmed. The scariest part is at the end of the movie where the mother and daughter are embracing and Mom is telling her that the ordeal is all over, but not quite yet! They hear the sound of the evil car's motor coming, and they hurry back into the bus (so smashed up from the road rage) to get away, but the bus won't start and the Mom and daughter are panicking fearing a replay of the evil that they thought was officially gone was happening again. After a few seconds, the bus finally starts up JUST IN TIME and they get away and the evil car takes a dive off of the cliff and finally the evil is gone and wiped out. That ending scene really scared the (you know what) out of me because I feared that the mother and daughter were going to be hurt even more, possibly killed. I had seen this movie twice in '90, but have not seen it on TV anymore. This is not one of my favorites, and I would not recommend this to other people (who have kids that ride the bus to and from school). Joanna Cassidy and Marcie Leeds are great actresses, but this is not a good story; this seems to be a modern day "reprise" of Spielberg's Duel from 1971. What were the creators of this '90 flick thinking, anyway??? There are other great TV movies out and about, but this one should not have been made. Sorry folks!! My grade for this movie: D-