Two guys and their girls head out for a surfing trip for the weekend along a lonely beach line. Things start getting very weird and nightmarish when they encounter a strange scruffy man living nearby and certain actions and surroundings seem quite familiar. It's like they have been through it all before.<br /><br />Every once in awhile you come across a film that's quite unique in its own way, compared to the norm. That's how I feel about "Lost Things", although it's not a film everyone would get into. Giving too much away in the plot outline can definitely spoil this flick, but certain people will know where this film is heading and pick up on the plentiful cryptic messages, the loop and major twist. But if that is the case for you, it's still able to keep it really intense and quite compelling. It does leave you hanging there. The first time I watched this haunting Australian Indie flick it just happened to be an accident. I didn't know what to make off it back then, but with my recent viewing it has kinda hit the mark. Still it had me thinking, "Well that was just bizarre!" This is one strangely fascinating, psychological journey of one coming to terms with extreme fear and death. What makes it quite mind-boggling is that it takes on an enigmatic, supernatural spin to its cerebral material. It's about who's watching whom within a certain space and time. Things seem to fall into place quite naturally, despite some irritate factors involving ragged editing, which gave the film a convoluted feel at times and confusing spots in the script. The largely spaced out and closed up feel that surrounds the film emerges from the beautiful, but extremely eerie backdrop and the otherworldly music score that's strongly effective in that unsettling and alienating manner. Trumping in were some jolting images, illusions and sounds effects that hit you from all sides. All of this action mostly occurs during daylight, but still manages to touch a nerve by trapping you in. During these weird going ons, there's the usual teen antics one would associate. None of it distracts, but gives it a sense of realism and a more then believable rapport between the characters. The young cast involving Leon Ford, Charlie Garber, Lenka Kripac and Alex Vaughan gave fair, but likable performances, though it was the punctuating performance of Steve Le Marquand as the very freaky Zippo that made real headway.<br /><br />Interesting, ambitious and spiralling film-making comes together in this little complex and uncanny fare. So do you know, who you are?