If Matt Helm is the world's last hope in recovering one billion in stolen gold, then we're in big trouble. The aging Dean Martin is pathetic as a Bond-esquire government agent that women somehow (?) find irresistible, even those who aren't trying to use him in some way. Austin Powers (Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery) is most often compared to James Bond, but he's clearly more like this version of Matt Helm than he ever was to 007. Like Austin Powers, Helm's cover is that of an international fashion photographer/playboy. He is, in reality, only slightly sexier than Don Knotts character in "The Love God?". He seems on the edge of sobriety throughout the film, and in the scenes where he's up close and personal with his lovely co-stars, I couldn't help wondering if they were fighting the urge to throw up from his rank cigarette-booze breath! Talk about suffering for your Art! I probably feel the worst for the other actors in the film, because the whole project could have been better than it was. Yes, it was a parody of the secret-agent genre of the 1960s that peaked several years earlier, but I guess the picture is so disappointing because it seems to be built instead around the person of Dean Martin, and his real life image as that of a heavy drinking swinger. Please, I'm not completely disregarding his acting ability, because he did in fact make some pretty good movies before this one. I liked him in the films he did with Jerry Lewis, but Martin just seems to be taking it way too easy in this one, and not really even trying. Perhaps when you're an established "star", you don't have to. <br /><br />The legendary Bruce Lee choreographed the fight scenes in "The Wrecking Crew", but I can't imagine him bragging too much about it. Tina Louise (Gilligan's Island) goes through the same kind of seductress routine she worked so hard to perfect with Bob Denver all those years on the "uncharted desert isle", and is as lovely as she ever was. Elke Sommer is convincing as a menacing moll, but Nancy Kwan is forgettable as a stereotyped Asian. I've seen that Chuck Norris was in the film as well, but I've never been able to spot him. Nigel Green is just plain annoying as the "Count" who's responsible for stealing the gold. Just try counting the number of times he says "schedule". Aaargh! He comes off as a poofy, snobby aristocrat. Alright, maybe that's how he was supposed to be. <br /><br />Goofs: Although the film supposedly takes place in Denmark, everyone, including the cops who drive Ford automobiles, speak English with no accent whatsoever! There are a few shots near the beginning of Matt Helm driving through a Danish city, but that's it! The driving scenes with Matt Helm and Freya Carlson are obviously California. The scenes involving the train may be Europe, but I'm not sure. I'm in Germany now and have been in Europe for the past 4 years, and I have seen many areas that resemble the terrain in those shots. At various times in the film, characters watch video screens to see the train speed through the countrysidehow? Has the evil Count placed cameras along the track? Does he have tiny flying robots equipped with cameras to follow the train? I guess I'm looking too deep. The most glaring blunder has got to involve the astro-turf used in several shots to make the outside of the Count's estate. Matt Helm throws an exploding hanky (????) at a door seconds before he dives over a hedge onto the "grass". As he hits the grass, it compresses because of the extensive padding beneath, and a large area of the astro-turf kicks up. Come on, editor (Maury Winetrobe). <br /><br />And now, Sharon Tateshe is probably the one reason to watch this film. She plays Freya Carlson, and got the most screen time in this film than in any other of her previous works. The only other movie she made after this one was called "12 + 1" in which she also had a major role. Sharon Tate was beautiful. She also came across as a very sincere actress in all of her roles, but "The Wrecking Crew" gave her the chance to be more that just a pretty face. She had said in an interview early in her career that she knew she could never do Shakespeare, but would like to try light comedy. She went on to say that she realized that comedy was very difficult because "you have to be so serious". I'm so glad that Sharon got the opportunity to do both this and "12 + 1" before her life was taken. She proved that she did in fact have very real potential as a comedic actress. Sharon really shines every time she's on the screen, and I really came away feeling like I had a much better concept of what she must have been like as a person than from any of her other films. Why on earth the director had in a red wig is beyond me. She had such beautiful blonde hair at that time in her life. I highly recommend this film to any fan of Sharon Tate. 8 out of 10 because of her.