As one of the aforementioned "kicked around Jews" I take sincere offense to the ignorant and unnecessary comments. There are many other cultures who embrace their history, African Americans, Irish, Italians, Greeks, Somalians etc, all whom have had a tainted past filled with atrocities befallen by other cultures. Should the Jews not be begrudged their past simply because its been "done before"? How about the many Jesus movies that I've had to sit through?... the Robe, Jesus of Nazareth... the Passion of the Christ, for Pete's sake, where once again, Jews are demonized and another wave of stereotypes must be knocked down; a new generation of ignorant people who also probably believe Jews have horns (we don't), killed Jesus (we didn't, check your history) or worse, are the all encompassing "stereotypical Jew" with our money, our fame, our power, our jewelery, our incredible banking/jewelery making/doctoring/lawyering skills. Sorry if we're an intelligent society that focuses on education. Sorry we were forced to take up these trades BY CHRISTIANS in the 1400's or face death. Sorry we CREATED the basis of your religion and you stole many of our customs. To write that another "Jewish Holocaust" movie is trite and wasteful, only shows just how lacking in intelligence most of this country is. Yes, 11 million died, 5 million of them made up of Gypsys, Poles, Political Prisoners, Handicapped, Gay, and the other 'outsiders' were massacred, this I will not dispute. However, to trivialize the plight of our Six Million martyrs, a million and a half being innocent children, to say "enough of it", is a slap in the face of history. As a teenager I journeyed to those camps shown in The Devils Arithmatic. I heard the stories of the survivors like Aunt Ava, I saw with my own eyes evil at its finest. I saw and touched the 7 TON VAT OF HUMAN ASHES left in Maidjanek for the wind to spread to the four corners of the world. This movie is the first one I have ever seen (and believe me, I have seen a lot) to do any sort of justice for the plight of our martyrs. This movie joins the ranks of Sophies Choice, Schindlers List, and Life is Beautiful, that truly shows what the Holocaust did to our people and the world. So please, to the general public, disregard the previous comments made purely based on ignorance. It's not the authors fault, it's society's for letting people have that notion and allowing them to continue on breeding ignorant people. Rent this movie, watch it if you can. It is graphic and heart ripping, it is a movie EVERY teen should see so that they can relay the message of Never Again, because next time it may not be The Jews, it could be any culture. Next time it could be yours.