The Lost Princess is a fantastic romp through the wacky world of Don Juan and Miguel. Dakota Star Granados is beautiful and does an excellent job as the warrior princess Esmerelda. Mr. Granados is, as always, the handsome Prince of Spain Don Juan, a man confident enough in the abilities of his daughter to send her on a quest to save Scarborough from the evil/misguided Krankenmal. Mr. Kondziolka brings joy to all as the fun-loving Miguel and as Krankenmal. Duncan Pace, the director and editor of The Lost Princess, has created a film that will delight all ages. The Lost Princess is Mr. Pace's first feature length film (he previously directed the short film The Tale of El Gusano)and he has given viewers a work that will keep them on the edges of their seats. Most people cannot wait to see The Lost Princess again after the first viewing! The musical score for The Lost Princess is truly outstanding. The score by Eddie Jeff Cahill, Bret Blackshear, and Frank Della Penna is worthy of an award on its own, even without the rest of the film. "Esmerelda's Boogie" is an especially spirited dance number led by Mr. Kondziolka and the "cast of thousands" from Scarborough Faire. My only small complaint about the film is that Mr. Kondziolka does not have a solo number to showcase his beautiful voice as he did in The Tale of El Gusano! Mr. Pace uses the beautiful grounds of Scarborough Faire to set off the action of his film. The performers and cast members of Scarborough are used effectively throughout the film. Viewers of the film comment on the beautiful Lolly Foy as Queen Eleanor, the zany nuns, the ever-so-strange Weam Dreaver, and the always amusing Foolhearty. Several people have adopted the line "Oh Don Juan! Oh Miguel! Oh Clowns!" as part of their personal repertoire after viewing the film! The film has been well-received at many film festivals and has won several awards, including a REMI award from Worldfest in Houston. The film has been endorsed by Kids First, an endorsement which should let parents know that this film is appropriate for their children. Children do not understand all the jokes in the movie, but they enjoy the bright colors of the scenery and the colorful characters.<br /><br />In conclusion, The Lost Princess earns two thumbs up! There are a few minor continuity problems in the film and a few "interesting" camera angles, but none of these detract from the utter joy one gets from viewing the film!