Although Ronald Colman radiates charisma in the dual role of monarch and impostor in director John Cromwell's "The Prisoner of Zenda," epic saga of intrigue, romance and swordplay, Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., steals the show as the audacious amoral Count Rupert of Hentzau in an exuberant performance rivaling anything that his matinée idol father ever did. Not only does Rupert defy our hero and his cohorts, but he also thumbs his nose at the chief villain and his accomplices. Beautiful Madeleine Carroll of "The 39-Steps" co-stars as the love interest Princess Flavia, while Raymond Massey scowls arrogantly behind his monocle as the chief villain. Mary Astor, David Niven, and C. Aubrey Smith flesh out a dazzling cast. This lively, 101-minute, black and white, United Artists swashbuckler was the fourth cinematic adaptation of Anthony Hope's popular Victorian novel about dual identities and high court skullduggery when the king's scheming illegitimate half-brother tries to usurp him and claim the crown for himself. Countless scenarists, among them John L. Balderston of "Dracula" fame as well as Ben Hecht of "Scarface: Shame of the Nation" and Sidney Howard, penned the elaborate screenplay. The first two-thirds of "The Prisoner of Zenda" establishes the setting, situation, and characters, while the last third of this lavish costumer delivers thrills and chills, especially a swordfight between Colman and Fairbanks.<br /><br />An Englishman, Major Rudolf Rassendyll (Ronald Colman of "Goodbye, Mr. Chips"), embarks on a holiday to indulge in his penchant for fishing. When he arrives in the small kingdom of Ruritania, Rudolf finds everybody eyeballing him and bothering him about the upcoming coronation. Rudolf has no idea why they are scrutinizing him and he states that he has no intention of attending any coronation. Later, while he is fishing on a game preserve, two of King Rudolph's men accost him and comment about his amazing resemblance to Lord Rudolph V. Indeed, Rudolf turns out to be the sovereign's distant cousin. Rudolph (Ronald Colman in a dual role) invites Rudolf to join him for wine at his royal hunting lodge. Rudolf observes that the king quaffs liquor to excess. After everybody has passed out from too much drink, the future king has one last drink that knocks him out for the long run. Colonel Zapt (crusty C. Aubrey Smith of "Little Lord Fauntleroy") has Captain Fritz von Tarlenheim (David Niven of "The Charge of the Light Brigade ") stash the unconscious Rudolf in the wine cellar until the king recovers. Later, Zapt persuades an initially reluctant Rudolf to masquerade for a day as the man scheduled to be crowned. "If he's not crowned today," Zapt grimly assures Rudolf, "he'll never be crowned." Imagine the surprise and consternation of His Highness Duke Michael (Raymond Massey of "Desperate Journey") when the coronation proceeds as planned. Michael refuses to be thwarted so easily. Rudolph's civility and sobriety surprises Flavia, while Rudolf is quite captivated by her beauty. Princess Flavia's memories of Rudolph's dreadful behavior toward her years before vanish. Of course, Flavia hasn't the slightest clue about the charade perpetrated by Rudolf. Everything seems to be going well for our heroes some 42 minutes into the plot as they return to the hunting lodge to let the real Rudolph resume his rightful place as monarch. Our heroes learn Rupert has kidnapped Rudolph and Michael is equally as surprised. Of course, the villains cannot blow the trumpet on the heroes without incriminating themselves, too.<br /><br />Incredibly, Michael doesn't learn about Rudolf's impersonation until Rupert informs him about it some 58 minutes into the action. At this point, rapacious Rupert negotiates terms from Michael for Rudolph. Meanwhile, Rupert lures Rudolf to a rendezvous after midnight at a deserted summer house behind the wall on the Boulevard Elphberg with Antoinette de Mauban (Mary Astor of "The Kennel Murder Case") to learn the whereabouts of the King. Antoinette warns Rudolf that Rupert is bringing two other men to kill him. She strikes a bargain with Rudolf to free Rudolph as long as no harm befalls Michael. Of course, Michael knows nothing of Antoinette's treachery. She informs Rudolf that Michael has moved Rudolph from a woodcutter's cabin to Michael's castle near Zenda. Further, she tells him that they are prepared to kill Rudolph if Rudolf tries to storm the castle. She agrees to help Rudolf rescue Rudolph and hands him an earring as a sign. Once she formulates a plan for Rudolph's rescue, she will send a servant with the matching earring. Rupert and his men arrive and try to kill Rudolf, but our protagonist escapes. By now Flavia knows about Rudolf's sham. Later, Rupert meets Rudolf at the King's hunting lodge and tries to kill him. Antoinette's servant arrives and explains that he will lower the drawbridge after midnight. One man must swim the moat, scale the castle to Antoinette's room, and reach the dungeon before the guards can murder the king.<br /><br />Again, the best thing about "The Prisoner of Zenda" is Fairbanks' mischievous performance and his treachery toward his own people. The surprise here is that he manages to escape after he kills Michael. Reportedly, producer David 0. Selznick brought in MGM helmer W.S. Van Dyke to restage the climactic action sequences at Michael's castle where Rudolf has to sneak inside despite heavy odds and free the monarch. The swordfight between Rupert and Rudolf and the cavalry charge across the drawbridge is pretty exhilarating stuff that has lost little of its verve. Horsemen gallop across the drawbridge and some crash their horses, virtually plunging them into the camera. This film received two Academy Award nominations: Lyle R. Wheeler for Best Art Direction and Alfred Newman for Best Music Score. "The Prisoner of Zenda" ranks as an above-average escapade with witty dialogue and good performances, especially gorgeous Madeline Carroll who grows quite fond of the impostor.