I watched this movie for the first time last night and was completely blown away. I read somewhere that it came from a stage play, and you definitely get the feeling for that. So all of those of you who can't sit through movies like The Big Kahuna or Glengarry Glen Ross because "nothing happens", don't bother trying to watch this - you'll be bored. But for those of you who want to watch a movie about something, that will actually deal with it, rather than pander to the lowest common denominator, you might want to give this movie a shot.<br /><br />One reason I liked it so much is that I like a healthy dose of symbolism in my movies, and this movie has it in spades. A lot of the complaints that I've seen about this movie is that the movie never tells us what is keeping these two characters apart. (There may be spoilers ahead.) Well, the answer, it seems to me, is that these characters symbolize men and women in love, not just individual characters. Men are often seeking independence and individuality while women are often looking for reassurance of love. (Yes, those were two big stereotypes, but the reason they are stereotypes is because you see them so often in reality.) And the fact that the two characters go out to interview people on the street about how to stay in relationships, I get the feeling that the movie is trying to broaden its horizon beyond these two characters.<br /><br />The other reason I liked this movie is that it recognizes that real love, that passionate feeling that controls your actions whether you want it to or not, is so intense that it has a tendency to both pull people together and tear them apart. I especially liked the way it brought in the philosophies of Marx, Einstein and Freud to give the movie's ideas context from history, science and psychology.<br /><br />The final thing that caught my attention was the way the the movie tried to make a universal statement about love vs. happiness (because they aren't the same thing), and the best way to make it through this muddled life may not have anything to do with either, even if it is dull. I found the whole thing very fascinating and insightful.<br /><br />And if that hasn't completely scared you off, it is an incredibly funny and touching movie. I laughed as I recognized my own reactions to relationships brought to life in front of me. The performances are wonderful. Russell Crowe is one of the best actors working now, and Salma shows that she has a real talent waiting to come out to play. So, if you're still with me and this sounds like something that will appeal to your particular tastes, you might want to give it a chance.