This is the best documentary I've seen EVER. Madonna shows that she pulls out all the stops and never fails to push the envelope in any department, in this case it's political. "I'm Going To Tell You A Secret" chronicles the events of her 2004 "Re-Invention World Tour" and Madonna showcases herself as a pop sensation, devoted Mother and Wife, political warrior, and most of all, her true self and her devotion to the study of Kaballah. From the beginning with the opening of "The Beast Within", Madonna begins with her partnership with music producer Stuart Price and having a very candid conversation about God and her beliefs and throughout the documentary, voices her opinion on the political and material world we live in today, yet she never comes across as preachy. There are several clips of her performances from the concert and her views on life off stage. It's genuinely touching, making us realize that we all have to be grateful for the blessings that we have in life and to not take them for granted. Want what you have and not what you don't is one of the most important messages. Her rendition of John Lennon's "Imagine" is absolutely mind blowing. The images depicted of the poverty stricken countries during the song is enough to make the toughest of people cry their eyes out. She delivers many important messages with her dancers and states that we all enter the world as better people than who we are and have compassion for all mankind and take into consideration the pain and suffering that is going on in the world. Without taking responsibility for your own actions and watching what you say to others makes your talents useless. This is so true. Madonna never ceases to amaze and impress and expose the world to closeted issues that must be tackled. In her own words, we are all responsible for making the world a better place. You could not ask for a better documentary. Even the if you're the least bit involved in her art/music and not an aficionado, anyone would appreciate this masterpiece. It is highly recommended.