There are some films that are bizarre beyond words. HOUSE is such a zany and really warped haunted house tale, unlike your typical of the genre, this one has such surreal sequences as a girl being eaten by piano(..her decapitated fingers actually playing the musical instrument afterward!), a girl's removed lower torso actually karate kicking a painting of a cat causing the evil cannibalistic spirit to overflow with blood, a disembodied head biting a girl on the buttocks, mattresses attacking a girl, giant lips attempting to eat the remaining girls not yet swallowed, and our lead girl's face shattering like glass, her body becoming a human inferno. This has to be seen to be believed. The premise is bonkers. A young teenage student, Gorgeous, rebels against her widower father after he informs her of his future plans to wed a new love in his life. Along with her fellow school chums, including Fantasy(..who's in love with a teacher named Mr. Togo), decide to spend their summer vacation at Gorgeous' mysterious Auntie's creepy mansion resting on a hill overlooking a uninhabited town(..featuring only a very suspicious watermelon salesman!). Over the night, the girls discover that wheel-chair bound Auntie is actually a ghost awaiting her lover to return home after heading off to war. Auntie eats unmarried women which provides her with a life force to continue living as an undead spirit with supernatural powers witnessed over the length of the movie. Auntie and her white cat Blanche are ever present images as the girls futilely attempt to escape, succumbing to her unwillingly. Director Nobuhiko Obayashi never allows the film to look realistic and the music is often melodic featuring a bubble-gum score to match the energetic, naive teens who walk right into a truly difficult and unusual situation, to say the least. Obayashi tries every cinematic technique in the book and while his special effects are indeed dated, they provide the audience with a jaw-dropping bombardment of weird images and set-pieces. There's nothing quite like this film anywhere. It's one of a kind, and continues getting stranger every minute, from scene to scene, as Auntie's power grows and the terror towards the girls heightens, with each character falling one by one in very creative ways. While the film is by and large a film whose reputation is built on it's wacky nature, there are some genuine scenes of beauty, often even melancholy, but even the most romantic moment is off-set by a truly eye-popping follow-up. The characters are bubbly, enthusiastic, giggly sorts one is accustomed to in regards to teenage girls. What happens to them over the course of the film is what gives HOUSE it's growing cult following. I can promise you that HOUSE definitely lives up to the hype regarding sheer insanity and crazed visuals.