Starring Burt Reynolds and company. I couldn't agree more that Burt is at the top of his game. He had the best 'laugh', in Cannon Ball Run. Whenever J.J. and Victor ( Reynolds and Delouise ) would get into it and be crackin' -up, everyone else would too. Now here is the original, we are all on strike (The actors) and this is where we are gonna hang out and party while being in this movie! The actor's strike, what an uprising! This is one of those non ' Politically correct.' you gotta love this one, type of movie. Jackie Chan in his early days before many knew who or even what he was....talented. From Roger Moore, playing himself, (no identity crisis there) you gotta love him, to the tree loving-Farrah Fawcett and her new beau, the 'Wild Bull' marching on Washington D.C. to ban the sale of colored toilet paper, due to irritation! <br /><br />But the best being, all the speed hungry degenerates looking to qualify and get into the race. The major major running cross-country from sea to shining sea, in the shortest amount of time. The cast is heavily-packed with old-school 'giants', that came together and made the race more fun altogether. Two priests in a Ferrari 308. An English agent in an Astin Martin. A big man and a suave guy with a crazy-eyed doctor in an ambulance, along with a female -hostage passenger from an auto wreck, to an all female team in a black Lamborgini, that can get to a sailing pace of 220 miles per hour! Whoa. A Japanese racing team with night scope glasses and a rocket powered Subaru. This band of un-policed road-range nuts are out in full force and flying down the highway!! If you catch a glimpse I'm sure it will be accompanied by a deranged smile. Forget Jimmy Carter and sky-rocketing gas prices, this feature delivers more laughs per mile than a hybrid gets good mileage<br /><br />In the whole simple plot-based laugh road rally, this is a fun and intoxicated comedy for the undiscriminating comedy viewer. The fun and hilarity is infectious!! The actors, since being in the middle of the actor's strike, had time to hang out and through-out the movie you see the uninhibited lunacy that putting all these personalities together, with a lot of alcohol will do. Then at the end credits its role 'Bloopers' more enjoyment with the ones who couldn't keep their lines straight! This is a staple comedic kill the 55' mile per hour speed limit and blow away the other racer out and out good time! A classic for decades to come. Sheer madness, but all in good company!<br /><br />Recommended, oh yeah... ()***()