This picture opened in theaters every in the country on June 19 1981 starring Burt Reynolds as JJ McClure, Dom Deluise as Victor Prinizim, Farrah Fawcett as Pamela Glover, Dean martin as Jamie Blake, Sammy Davis Jr. as Morris Fenderbaum, Jack Elam played the doctor, The Gorgeous Adrienne Barbeau as Marcie Thatcher, Lamborghini Babe #1 The Lovely Tara Buckman as Jill Rivers, Lamborghini Babe #2, along with Terry Bradshaw, Mel Tills, and Jamie Farr as the Sheik. This movie was about a bunch of people who wanted to race in the Cannonball Run a Race that went from New York to California and the first one to stamp there card wins the prize. Let's start with the drivers as they arrived at the hotel where the Cannonball Race will stat. There's Marcie Thatcher and Jill Rivers riding around the highways going 220 MPH and spraying traffic and speed limit signs. Then you got JJ McClure and Victor who are also in this race. Victor and JJ are trying to figure out what kind of vehicle they need to win this race. So JJ can think first they go riding in an airplane, landing the in the middle of town in order to get beer. Next they go boat riding, only to crash and both JJ and Victor and up in an ambulance. JJ asks the doctor how far away is the hospital and he was told about 15 miles. But they were also told it would only take 5 minutes because with an ambulance you can go in and out of traffic with no one bothering to stop you. So they look at each other and laugh as they continue to fly through traffic. Next you got Jamie Blake and Morris Fendebaum who are dress like priest but they sure don't act like one. So everyone one is at the hotel having a party the night before the race starts. That's when JJ discovers Pamela Glover a very young and beautiful girl who happens to like trees. As JJ is trying to talk to Pamela he is interrupted by Victor who wants to talk about the doctor. JJ tells Victor that they need a doctor to ride in the ambulance so right before the race starts Victor finds Doctor Nikolas Van Helsing but JJ doesn't want to know where in found this doctor. So while the race has started, and JJ realizes that that they don't have a patient for in back of the ambulance. So as there going down the road they come upon and accident where Pamela Glover is standing when JJ and Victor pull up. Pamela ask if they will help the young man and so JJ opens the door, get Pamela Glover inside and Victor takes of leaving the man behind. As there going down the highway a New Jersey State Trooper has his lights on stopping the ambulance. Inside the doctor has given Pamela laughing gas to make it look like she really sick. The girls had a few tricks of the own. You see they would go down the states highways like a bat out of hell only to get pulled over by State Troopers. They were both wearing one piece suits so they open up the zipper show a little and the State Troopers would let them go every time. Who wins this race? Where does Captain Chaos come into play? How many of them get caught and don't finish the race? Here are some thoughts of my own on this movie. I thought the plot and the comedy of this movie was great from beginning to end. However, I bought this movie because of Adrienne Barbeau and Tara Buckman and I sure once disappointed. They walked around in those tight spandex and they were looking real good. Based on that and the great comedy I have no problem giving this movie 10 weasel stars.