Based on the story 'The Forbidden' by Hellraiser writer and director Clive Barker, Candyman is another tale of people delving into places where they shouldn't delve and otherworldly evil. Rather than a demon from hell, the antagonist of this tale is an urban legend going by the name of Candyman. The mythology behind the story is one of the film's major plus points, and director Bernard Rose does a good job of building it. The mythology combined with what can only be described as a fetid atmosphere bode well together, and ensures that this film is both a creepy and absorbing tale of horror. The film follows a pair of University students; Helen Lyle and Bernadette Walsh doing a thesis on urban legends. They decide to research the modern day myth of 'Candyman', a figure who appears complete with a hooked hand to savage whomever stupid enough to say his name five times in front of the mirror. However, one of the duo starts to put a bit too much effort into the work, and ends up coming a cropper when Candyman decides to have his wicked way with her.<br /><br />The parts of the story that stand out the most are the relationship between the protagonist and Candyman, and the idea of a community of people believing in title character. However, this is where the film falls down to me. The scenes between Helen and Candyman put too much focus on the 'evil' dialogue, and the relationship is never really built upon. The urban legend theme is often touched upon, but we only meet a handful of characters that believe in the almighty Candyman, and they aren't in the film for long. The basis of the story follows Helen's bid for sanity, and while this provides an interesting backbone for the film - I really do think it could have been a lot better. The casting is largely good, with Tony Todd putting across an effective portrayal of Candyman, and Virginia Madsen delivering a believable performance as the film's victim. Xander Berkeley, who came to fame recently with a role in the first two series' of 24 rounds off the cast, which is under the direction of Bernard Rose. The only other film I've seen from him is Paperhouse, and Candyman is certainly a lot better than that. Although that isn't exactly difficult. Overall, this is a creepy and interesting film; but I can't say I'm a huge fan of it.