You dig the vibe? Yes it's a psychedelically offbeat, easy going apocalyptic Sci-fi / action hybrid led by a stone-like, but trendy action hero portrayal by Charlton Heston and a prominent budget. The ham-fisted premise is taken off Richard Matheson's novel "I Am Legend", and was the second feature to be based upon it. The first was the considerably dreary little Italian-made "The Last Man on Earth (1964)" starring the always charismatic Vincent Price. What strikes a chord early on, is the ultra-fashionable 70's style that really does date this cult insured film. The key is the way it begins, as it truly sets the mood superbly. We open with a quiet, arid Los Angeles ghost town and we feel the depressing solitude of Heston's character take shape. The tempo of the story is quite mellow, and purposely steady as John William and Joyce H. Corrington's unconventionally enterprising screenplay is thoughtfully literate, and filled with symbolic themes and powerful images (just look at the film's closing shot). But there's no escaping its campy origins, and the script cops the brunt of it. Some details feel ridiculous, and a tad grandeur than they should. I found the inclusion of the other (unaffected) characters kind of takes away the important construction of Heston's character, and maybe even the chilling side-effects waiting to break out. <br /><br />The only real major gripe I had was the pacing could get rather sluggish, but director Boris Segal's accessible direction delivered the goods when it came to the action set-pieces, filming the exteriors with its available scope and generating some surprises. Even though there's hope found within the story, it's extremely gloomy and finds a few moments to get down n' nasty with its violence. Russell Metty's poignantly atmospheric cinematography is great, and Ron Grainer's beat-inducing, cosy music score is well oiled. The make-up effects of the albino mutants (who replace the vampires of the original and are known as "The Family") is ghastly, unique and very 70's. Gotta love the shades, and their hooded robes. The performances are really good. Heston carries lot of the weight, and chisels out a subtle but strongly evocative character performance. To cash in on the Blaxploitation market, a feisty Rosalind Cash is cast along side Heston. Anthony Zerbe reeks with cunning menace as the manipulative, preachy leader of "The Family" and there's a short part for a lively Paul Koslo. <br /><br />Messy and unusual, but extremely groovy fun despite some heavy-handed currents.