Now living in the late 1970's, a former army Colonel/Scientist Robert Neville (Oscar-Winner:Charleton Heston) is living in a deserted Los Angeles. After surviving a disastrous plague, which it's been several years that Robert is alone and he thinks he is the only man alive in the entire world. But when it turns dark outside... there's a group of cultists who called themselves "The Family" (Led by Anthony Zerbe), who got affected by the plague. "The Family" are photosensitive mutants, who can't be outside during the day expect night-time. They also are trying to destroyed every technology or human, they could find. Which Robert battles with these freaks of nature nearly every night to survive. But Robert finds out, he is not alone in the city. When he meets a tough survivor Lisa (Roselind Cash) and other humans are not turned by the virus. Now Robert finds another chance to find a cure against these monsters. Before it's too late.<br /><br />Directed by Boris Segal made an intriguing Science Fiction movie that has moments of action, suspense and some moments of comedy. Segal's film is also visually striking, especially the wide empty streets of L.A. but unfortunately the feature has some incredibly campy moments at rather tense sequences. Heston is very good at his role here. Which it is one of the reasons why "The Omega Man" remain memorable for over the years. Although this is the second version of "I Am Legend", Based on a novel by Richard Matheson (Duel, A Stir of Echoes, What Dreams May Come). First version was done in the 1960's titled "The Last Man on Earth" starring Vincent Price and last year's "I Am Legend" starring Will Smith. Which these three films has the same premise but done completely different. The book also inspired filmmaker George A. Romero to created flesh eating zombies in the classic "Night of the Living Dead". Despite some serious flaws, "The Omega Man" is still a good movie. For those who are familiar with the recent adaptation "I Am Legend" and never seen this one. This is worth checking out. Panavision. (*** ½/*****).