So there's this Romanian guy who can change from a person into a monster. We start off with an MTV rap video (Hear that noise? That was 75% of the audience changing the channel) of him killing a guy while a prostitute gets splattered with his blood. Not a terribly auspicious way to begin the movie. He's arrested for something and taken to the local jail, which was apparently a prison at one point, but now the upper two floors are abandoned. The cops don't know about his shape-shifting power. We meet our guards, a couple of guys who behave like clowns and a female who's got a bit of a back-story (gee, wonder who will live 'till the end?). We meet the prisoners, a group of stereotypes who do the usual trash-talking for a few minutes. Then of course our shape-shifter does his changaroo thing and the fun begins.<br /><br />I really wasn't too interested in this at the beginning, it looked like your typical "trying way too hard to be hip" type thing, but once the monster starts running around, it actually improves quite a bit. The guard babe strips down to her see-through T-shirt with half her bra sticking out, and the stereotypical prisoners turn into fairly normal human beings who are all fighting for their survival. They crawl through some crawlspace above the ceiling of the jail and get into the abandoned upper floors, which provide a suitably creepy place for them to have their various engagements with the killer critter. There's also a somewhat interesting story that develops about what the monster's motives are. The prisoner characters are used pretty well to add even more interest to the story as they of course aren't the most compassionate bunch towards their fellow prisoners. And the lead babe is quite a good actress, she really does a nice job with her butt-kicking heroine roll. And did I mention she's running around in a see-through T-shirt with half her bra sticking out? Well, it bears repeating.<br /><br />Overall, after the crummy start, I thought this evolved into a fairly entertaining monster flick by the midway point. I give the beginning a 2/10 and the rest a slightly above average 6/10, which averages out to about 4.