This is one of the high-quality finished film in animation. The quality of Japanese animations have an enormous reputation all over the countries and are appealing in terms of content for adults. This film is also turned out to be ones including philosophy and psychological world which adults can enjoy. "Tekkon Kinkurito" was originally serialized by Taiyo Otomo between 1993 and 1994 in Sho gakukan's Big Comic Spirits, and was made into a film by Michael Arias who is a producer of "Animatrix". The title "Tekkon Kinkurito" is derived from Otomo's experience as his childhood that he couldn't pronounce Tekkin Konkurito(reinforced concrete) and said "Tekkon Kinkurito". Orphan Kuro(Black) lives like a homeless and use his violence as one of his life style as a street kid. He lives his life with Shiro(White) who is also orphan and they live in a broken car. Shiro wear interesting strange fashion and innocent and helps with Kuro for fights. By calling Neko, they can fly on and off rooftops like cats. Kuro is smart, physically strength, good in fight, showing sometime mentally weakness and can only have a hope to live his life to protect Shiro. On the other hand, Shiro is innocent, mentally strength and weakness and showing a side of grown-up sometime. To connect with their Black and White, they are able to fill in each lack of their mind.<br /><br />Treasure Island is an imaginary old town which takes place in Osaka, where is portrayed as a nostalgic old town with loving people. Yakuza and a new company which related with Yakuza and their impassible killers show up in the town and was enveloped in an uneasy atmosphere. Each calls "My town" for Treasure Town, Kuro left Shiro for protecting him and struggles with helping the town through his unique view of point.<br /><br />Shiro and Kuro, people who love old and good era and new era, darkness and brightness, and response and motion. To reflect various of duality we can see each character's view of point. Another guy called Itachi(Mink), who wear a cow's mask on, he may be another person who Kuro created inside his mind. The scene drawing with sense of psychic about conflict among Itachi, Kuro and Shiro are imaginable and stuck out in my mind.