This is definitely a series pilot. It doesn't say it is, but it leaves far too many loose ends to quit with the tidy return of Joe Miller's daughter. 1) We have the Prophet of the Objects walking out of the hospital--and that is it, nothing more from him. What was the point if he just "realizes his destiny" so to speak 2) We have Joe becoming the "living object" through a conservancy of objects rule told to him by Eddie, whom we know absolutely nothing about, except that he lost his life as he knew it as a result of witnessing the EVENT. 3) We have the key being thrown into the motel room at the end of the final episode, and the door opening to show the dirt floor of the dilapidated motel room; but the final scene is of the door opening to show the key where Joe threw it. This poses a problem with the "rules" they set up for objects returned to the room, unless that is where the key would have been originally. 4) When the "Taken" mini-series ended,for example, each of the story lines neatly concluded and the questions for each character were resolved. It would have been a likely series, but it resolved tidily after 10 episodes. Not like The Lost Room...<br /><br />My theory for a continuation of the series is that all of the objects need to be returned to the room. And the different groups, Collectors, The Order, and The Legion each have a different agenda for the objects. It would be logical for the Legion to realize that the objects need to be restored to complete this fissure in reality. Once they are returned, the power of all will be negated, or rather reconciled. I think that once that happens, the EVENT will be revealed; possibly, each object bore witness to the EVENT, and each was imprinted with a fragment of "power" associated with that witness, some more imprinted than others unless they come within a certain distance to other objects. Notice how many things weren't in the room when Joe would use the Key, as compared to what appeared in the room through the photograph. What objects were destroyed so that the photos could become objects? Also there are several objects which were never removed from the room, but would become Objects once done. It is the unanswered questions about what governs this "world" that make it a suitable series candidate.