Here's yet another reason to accentuate the 1970's was the absolute greatest decade for cult-trash cinema output (as if we weren't convinced enough already): Carsploitation movies! There are only a handful of them, they all look alike and most film-loving audiences will probably detest them, but … damn, are they ever entertaining! "Cannonball!" – although I must say I prefer the much cheesier video title "Carquake" – is brought to us by the same team that made the brilliant and unequaled "Death Race 2000" one year earlier, and it many ways it feels as if writer/director Paul Bartel injected all the silly comedy that he couldn't put in "Death Race" into this film instead. This film is more of a straightforward comedy whereas "Death Race" was a black comedy (apparently not everybody finds the idea of wiping pedestrians off the road for points funny). The concept of this film is much simpler: bunch of eccentric people participate in an illegally organized cross-country race from California to New York City. Ex-convict Coy Buckman is obviously the most talented racer, so his competitors will have to revert to ingenious cheating if they want to stand a chance. The main storyline as described here is obviously very simplistic, but one could also claim there are numerous little sub plot story lines that are all terrific and imaginative. The lead character Coy Buckman is already quite intriguing. He dragged his sexy female parole officer along in the race and has a mechanic who idolizes him so much that he literally wants to be Cannonball! Every contestant in the race is worth mentioning, like the obnoxious German in his canary-yellow sport car and the psychopathic Redman and his country-singing and guitar-playing co-pilot. Outside the race there's quite a lot going on as well, like Coy's sleazy brother Bennie trying to sabotage the most important rivals because he bet a huge some of money on the winner. Although the comical ambiance definitely overrules, "Cannonball!" nevertheless remains a bona fide action/spectacle movie with copious crashes, macho showdowns, explosions and violent painful deaths. The climax, which features a mass accident with cars piling up seemingly forever, exactly demonstrates the blending of humor and action. The cast is full of pleasingly familiar faces, especially if you know a thing or two about B-movies. Apart from the brothers Carradine (David and Robert), there's Mary Woronov, Dick Miller, Carl Gottlieb and director Paul Bartel himself (in a hilarious role). Buckle up for some sheer cult-excitement!