I'm Belgian…and generally not too proud of the movies that are made here. Either they're vulgar comedies revolving on simply one lame gag or either they're uninspired, wannabe-Hollywood garbage flicks. There are some exceptions, luckily, like Poelvoorde's "C'est Arrivé pres de chez Vous" (our country's only real cult film) and Deruddere's "Crazy Love", of which I feel that it can easily compete with the greatest and most sophisticated international social-dramas ever made. For his long-feature debut, Deruddere based himself on the glamorous work of Charles Bukowski and thus "Crazy Love" tells the chronicles of a man during three essential stadiums of his life. As a child, Harry Voss (Geert Hunaerts) is naive but very curious about love and sexual relationships. A more aged friend teaches him everything there is to know about how to approach a girl and – in case those methods fail – how to temper feelings of lust through masturbation. In the second and most compelling 'chapter' of the movie, Harry (now played by the utterly talented Josse De Pauw) grew out a fairly intelligent adolescent, yet he still hasn't experienced physical love due to a severe (better make that EXTREMELY severe) case of acne. He's too embarrassed to leave his house since boys mock him and girls show no interest in him at all. Even though he still has one close and supportive friend, Harry slowly becomes a bitter, introvert and pessimistic person. At age 33, Harry Voss is an antipathetic drunk, unable to express emotions and developing perverted urges like harassment or – even worse – necrophilia. The astonishing climax is one that'll leave everybody speechless… <br /><br />Although surely sounding like one hell of a devastating and depressing film, "Crazy Love" actually isn't too 'heavy' to look at. Deruddere admirably succeeds in telling the demanding premise very wittily and almost comically. The pace is rather slow, but never boring and the character drawing of Harry Voss is truly fascinating. The inspirational work of Charles Bukowski's is processed with great respect. The matter would easily lean itself to make it a sleazy and exploitative film, yet Deruddere's style remains sophisticated and truthful at all times. Since the story spreads itself over three decades, the film required different atmospheres and scenery. Especially the 'hip' sixties is masterfully illustrated, with great contemporary music and a well-crafted high school prom. In short: "Crazy Love" is a near-perfect motion picture and every person slightly interested in cinema is destined to love it. My only regret was that it's so short! 90 minutes never passed by so fast.