I loved this movie more because I was able to relate to the people and places it represents. I'm not a technical critic and this is not a technical review. My favourite films touch an emotional chord and this is one of them. It was a very personal film to me. I served with Tongans as a missionary myself, but in the more Westernized society of Australia. I just want to say that I had to chuckle at a few comments. There is as much variance in reaction to this film as there is to the story of Joseph Smith (the 'founder' of the LDS faith) himself. It interests me that some people see this as a propaganda piece and also as a statement of the perceived supremacy of the "white man's religion". The Tongans who I met loved their religion (as the Tongans did in this movie). To them it was as personal as it is to me, and to the German, Australian, Samoan, Chilean and Phillipino Mormons I have met. Was the preaching of LDS Missionaries to my parents in England a white supremist act? Of course not, no more than it was to the Tongans or any other nationality or culture. Tongans serve today as missionaries, of their own free will, as enthusiastic and committed as Groberg was then. The message to me from this, is that there is a level of humanity that transcends the temporary diversity of culture. Groberg and his beloved friends found that place in "The Other Side of Heaven". Something so very personal that it is very hard to express on film. I think this movie was as honest as it could possibly be. It was the experience and perspective of Groberg as he recorded it. It was true to his literature, upon which it was based. To question its integrity is to question the integrity of Groberg himself, the people he interacted with in Tonga and the motive of the film-makers who tried to translate his memoirs to film. You have a right to question them. If you find this film offensive, preachy, lacking in artistic expression or drama or just sickly-sweet, I feel sorry for you. To me this motion picture experience is an expression of real-life at its fullest. A wonderful achievement.