This is one of those rare movies that the director should have given the celluloid away instead of wasting it on this film, and the world would be a better place because of it. I came in thinking that this was probably going to be the worst movie I had ever seen, and, to my dismay, I was right. Some bad movies, in spite of themselves, actually entertain to a certain extent, and others, like Primitif, make you wonder why you wasted five seconds of your life watching it, let alone the entire 90 minute running time. While watching this movie, I was amazed at how poor every aspect was. The acting, dubbing, and dialogue were all horrible, the camera-work was inept, and the picture quality looked like they shot it in 8MM. The only thing that might have it save face are the extremely limited scenes of action and gore, and the genuine Indonesian rain forest where they filmed. Other than that, it's the usual bad adventure movie with bad actors and prolonged sequences of characters walking through the jungle doing nothing (Jess Franco, anyone?). Ever ready to take advantage of the Italian cannibal craze, Indonesia's lone shot at the genre is a swing and a miss.<br /><br />The whole ordeal opens with meeting our hapless "heros," Tommy, Bobby, and Rita. They want to research primitive tribes, but the one tribe their guide takes them to isn't primitive enough (pff), so they pay him to go deeper in the jungle. They then proceed to get into a raft accident. Rita and Tommy are lost in the woods with another one of their idiot guides, and their "good" guide and Tommy meet up later. Rita and Bobby's guide is killed in the usual bad spike trap, and they're then captured by the same cannibal tribe they were looking for and face various "tortures," including the most pathetic attempted rape ever committed to film (although there was one noteworthy scene of a cannibal gets his testicles smashed with a mallet). Cut to following Tommy, who is as pathetic as he looks. He eats hallucinatory apples and watches a cannibal give birth and follows her to the tribe. Rita and Bobby escape by being quiet and tip-toeing out of the village, and then find Tommy. They escape, and are confronted again by the cannibals. Robert fights them off single-handedly with lame kung-foo while the other two high-tale it out of there. Poor Tommy is killed, and I cried at that part not because it was so sad, but it was the most unrealistic and sappiest moment in movie history. The other two make it out on a raft with his body, and escape because the river's the cannibals' territory boundary.<br /><br />All the characteristics of a bad adventure movie are present, but instead of being an entertaining bad movie (so bad it's good), it's just flat out boring. From the opening, any horror enthusiast will know the outcome from the get go, and as minorities and non-central characters die off, you realize that you were right. Almost every scene in this movie is taken from Last Cannibal World, but they copy them poorly. The biggest problems are probably the most laughable displays and scenes shown throughout the movie. Such displays include rubber snakes attacks, pointless animal combat scenes (only put in to add a cannibal genre legitimacy to it), poor special effects, and the most ridiculous turn of events, such as sawing through the cage with a rock and tip-toeing around the entire tribe to escape. Horrible! All of this helps add to the bland movie atmosphere, and it's not helped by the Flintstones-like music playing all the while. The most annoying thing though was the cannibal tribe. Every cannibal in the tribe all chant the same noise constantly (as if making that noise and bouncing is a ritual). Miraculously, though they all say the same thing all the time, they all understand each other. After watching ten minutes where the only thing on the soundtrack is that chanting and the screechy, whiny screams of the "victims" gets old really fast. The wardrobe and makeup was terrible, and the only gore effects that are good are the real animal killings (horribly out of line, with an orangutan having its head broken open), which are only there to make the movie seem as hardcore as the Italians' movies. To add to that, the infamous tomahawk-boomerang scene has to be the most hilariously stupid scene in movie history. <br /><br />The only thing I can note about Primitif is that the cannibal tribe at the very least looked realistic, dirty, and gritty, unlike several other cannibal obscurities. However, everything else in the picture tears that positive note apart. Why anyone would pool their money to make this is beyond me. The acting would come better from a kindergarten music class, which doesn't help the ridiculous events, and the audio and visual elements are scratchy and inept. Yes, controversial animal killings are present, mainly to add shock to an incredibly shockless film, thinly disguised as rituals by the tribe. If there are any "good" parts to the movie, it was probably taken from other movies. Even cannibal completionists would be hard pressed to consider wasting the money for this movie, especially that there is almost no single feature release still in existence. If you can sit through it, even though I don't even recommend putting it in the player, feel free to experience the most boring 90 minutes or so of your life, and hate yourself for never being able to have them back.