Splash (1984): Tom Hanks, Daryl Hannah, John Candy, Eugene Levy,, Shecky Greene, Dody Goodman, Richard B. Shull, Bobby Di Cicco, Howard Moris, Patrick Cronin, David Knell, Tony Di Benedetto, Charles Walker, Rnoald F. Hoiseck, Joe Grifasi, Lowell Ganz, Maurice Rice, Cheryl Howard, Pierre Epstein, Valerie Wildman, Jack Denton, Nick Cinardo, Fil Formicola, Clare Peck, Jodi Long, Amy Ingersoll, Jack Hallett, Bill Smitrovich, Nancy Raffa, Jason Late, David Nelson, Jill Jacobson, Vincent Jerosa, Charles Mitchell, Nick Vallelonga...Director Ron Howard, Screenplay Brian Grazer, Bruce Jay Friedman, Lowell Ganz.<br /><br />From 1984, this is Ron Howard's romantic comedy inspired by the beloved children's fairy tale The Little Mermaid, even before the beloved Disney film took hold of everyone's notion of mermaid-and-male romance. It stars a young Tom Hanks, before his success as an actor, at a time when he was doing mostly comedy. He plays Allen Bauer, a New York boy who as a child fell off a boat and nearly drowned but was rescued by a mysterious mermaid (Daryl Hannah). Years later as an adult, he and his brother Freddie (John Candy) reside and work in New York City as product shipping men by a pier. As fate would have it, Allen reunites with the beautiful mermaid. Lost, confused, mute and nude, he takes her in as a guest in his apartment and later as a lover. She learns English through watching television and avoids revealing her true identity as a mermaid. When she is out of water, she is human (with legs) and when she is wet, she becomes a mermaid. Now, for today's young audience, one will note the similarities to the recent film "Aquamarine". Turns out Aquamarine is inspired by this film, but Splash is the greater film. The screenplay, the work of three talents, is witty, comedic and yet touchingly romantic. Despite the fantasy element, and even fantasy-within-fantasy (the mermaid couldn't talk and then learned English after one day at Bloomingdale's ?) is still a work of complete order and balance. We really do believe that this is logically happening in 1980's New York City. Ron Howard's direction is equally superb. Tom Hanks is doing a fine job, but he is not doing anything challenging. Neither is John Candy, who is clearly just doing the thing he was best known for. But we have to take in mind that this was not a serious romance and it was the first of many romantic comedies that would gradually take over film. The 1980's saw many romantic comedies that would become classics. Moonstruck with Cher for instance. Unfortunately, Splash did not make a big splash at the time of its release. The ending was a bit of a surprise and too sugary-sweet as Tom Hanks leaves the mortal world behind for her. So while this film is not a classic per se, it is a fine document of 80's comedy. And they used to make them a lot better than they do now. This is a lovely romantic film and one that can be appreciated by the whole family. With music by Lee Holrdige that is very moving and splendid cinematography by Donald Peterman. This is, by the way, also quite a date movie.