This movie really brought a fairy tale type story to life. A must see for everyone. I guess this film obviously makes for a great date movie. This is an excellent romantic comedy about a man and a mermaid who fall in love for each other in a modern fairy tale. This film was one of Tom Hanks' earliest hits that made him the huge superstar that he is today. Co-star Daryl Hannah, who plays Madison the mermaid, became herself a huge star from this film, but now times have changed in her film career, which has faded during the 1990s, which is sad. She is a great actress. John Candy plays Tom Hanks' older brother with Eugene Levy playing a crazy scientist who tries to prove that mermaids exist. These two provide some of the film's hilarious comedic moments.<br /><br />The romantic chemistry between Hanks' Allen Bauer and Hannah's Madison are just well done. Their characters' relationship just becomes true romance throughout the entire film. When Madison eventually gets caught as a mermaid, Allen realizes that Madison is the one true love that he can never lose. Allen, along with his brother and the crazy scientist, band together to rescue her. Later, Allen realizes that Madison was the little girl mermaid that rescued him when he was a young boy in the film's opening flashback sequence.<br /><br />Splash was directed by Ron Howard, who is, of course, one of Hollywood's great filmmakers. A movie about a mermaid has to be good, and Splash does this so well. Tips off to the crew of this movie who made it so real. The underwater sequences are well done, as well as Daryl Hannah herself as the mermaid. She is just utterly believable as a mermaid! I must say that she is just so sexy in the rubber mermaid tail suit. She swims in it so well! I really thought that she played Madison to perfection! I can really enjoy a movie about a mermaid nowadays.<br /><br />On one other note, most people probably don't know this, but Splash was followed up by a Disney TV movie sequel in 1988 that aired in two parts on the ABC network on what used to be a show called "The Disney Sunday Movie". The sequel was called "Splash, Too" and starred Todd Waring as Allen Bauer and Amy Yasbeck (movies "Problem Child" 1 and 2, "The Mask", "Pretty Woman", "Robin Hood: Men In Tights", and TV's "Wings") as Madison Bauer, now married from a Neptune ceremony. This sequel has Allen and Madsion come back to New York from their island hideaway to help Allen's brother Freddie (played by Donovan Scott) save Bauer Produce from going out of business. Madison has her own agenda later on as she finds a dolphin she knows from her past, named Salti, captured by another crazy scientist for study. Not a great sequel of course (as sequels usually are) but it was sort of nice to know that Allen and Madison had another adventure together. There were some funny moments in the movie. It was particularly challenging to see Madison cope with suburban life and trying to understand how to be a housewife. I wasn't bothered that much with the recasting of new actors as these characters either. I did like Amy Yasbeck's portrayal of Madison in this sequel. She too swims and looks nice in a mermaid fish tail as well! A worthy successor to Daryl Hannah in her own right. Some people who have seen Splash, Too think that its even better than the original film. And to others, its an awful sequel that doesn't compare to the original. Some folks even think that Amy Yasbeck's portrayal of Madison is even better than Daryl Hannah's! Mixed reviews none the less. Unfortunately, this sequel is not available on home video to my knowledge.