Arthur survives a car crash, but his brother was not so lucky. When he finally comes around he finds out he's in small country town called Parris and the local mayor tries to get Arthur to become a citizen. Strangely there some offbeat things going on in Paris and when the traumatised Arthur tries to leave he realises that he's trapped in this hell of a town. But what becomes a shock to Arthur is when he discovers the main source of income is that of salvaging parts of passing motorist's car after causing them to have a car accident.<br /><br />Peter Weir's first feature is a kooky, low-budgeted flick that I saw quite awhile back, but I did not remember too much about it, other than the devilishly looking sliver Volkswagen covered with spikes. I actually managed to record it off TV only couple nights ago and I just finally got around to seeing it again. This cult film I still find to be one tasty dark comedy that has a biting satirical edge about it. It ain't a perfect production and the film is highly incoherent, but damn the novelty behind it is far from generic, which made it such an engrossing and energetic exercise. Weir went onto make some prime films in the 70s with "Picnic at Hanging Rock" being his most vintage of his work in the period. "The Cars that Ate Paris" was a learning step in that right direction and a chance to find his feet. While the enigmatic story leaves many things up in the air with it's odd assortment of characters and ironic turns, but it's Weir's creative style and sly humour that shines through. Some of the satirical comments worked into the picture is that of Australia's obsession with automobiles to that of rebellion with the younger generation disrespecting their elders' terms. Weir is able to poke fun at these points with such nice balance of black humour and the smirking tone of it all really does stick to you without losing its way. There's some unbelievably humorous quotes in the dialogue too. But I actually found some disturbing scenes in the way how this car fetish lifestyle (a guilty sin waiting to break out) has become part of everyday life for the town that the harshness devoted on unexpected motorists is simply part of the parcel. It's a dog eat dog world in Paris. The actual feel of the film towards it deterioration of the town and menacingly, designed cars you could say goes on to find its way into the Mad Max films. Even a little homage of a spaghetti western standoff creeps in. There's not much in a way of suspense and it lumbers about in patches, but when the mayhem escalates it's plain devastating in its terrorising short bursts. The violence on the other hand isn't shy either with being well conceived and there's one memorable aftermath. The rural location and inhabitants of the town are simply alienating in their welcoming vibe and also with an eerie score that gives out a groovy twang that works up the mood rather effectively. There's just something essentially, whimsical about Bruce Smeaton's variety of tunes. The relax performances are adequate even though the characters are pretty much vacant shells, since most of the effort went into the look and thick atmosphere. John Meillon is great as the self-righteous Mayor and Terry Camilleri was solid as the timid Arthur who I actually sympathised for. The manipulative relationship between the Mayor who basically adopts Arthur as a son is an interesting set-up. Another recognizable performance that stood out was Bruce Spence as the very loopy Charlie. Simply a fun movie that's hardly dull, because it rambles along with many awkward situations and black humour.<br /><br />It's not for everyone, but people who are interested in Weir's work or that of odd premises should give it a go.