"Vamos A Matar, Compañeros" is another terrific and indescribably entertaining Spaghetti-western from the talented hands and brains of Sergio Corbucci ("Django", "The Great Silence"). Damn, what a fun movie this was! This film amazingly pairs two of the coolest and most brilliant contemporary Italian acting icons in the genre (Franco Nero & Tomas Milian); it has the catchiest Ennio Morricone score imaginable, a sublime albeit unobtrusive "Viva the Revolution" atmosphere, delightfully insane villains and a pleasing amount of exhilarating & violent shootouts. Franco Nero plays a smooth-talking Swedish weapon salesman, dealing with the corrupt & greedy army General Mongo. Tomas Milian is an ennobled street bandit also fighting for Mongo. They team up – reluctantly – to kidnap a certain professor Xantos, who teaches his youthful students to fight a bloodless revolution, but once they found and freed him from his prison cell, the way back to San Bernardino is still very long and full of obstacles, like defeating a marijuana-addicted criminal (the always-amazing Jack Palance!) with an artificial hand and a loyal pet-falcon. "Compañeros" is just pure fun! It's definitely not as sophisticated as Sergio Leone's Spaghetti Western efforts and not even as politically engaged as most revolutionary westerns, but its entertainment value is enormous! The on screen chemistry between Franco & Milian is irresistible, mostly because they constantly argue and try to abandon each other, and whenever the action sequences are about to kick in the splendid title song begins to play. Jack Palance is deliciously OTT as loathsome gangster, while Iris Berben (as Lola the cherubic freedom-fighter) and Karin Schubert (as Zaïra the helpful prostitute) provide the film with some welcome eye-candy and even nudity. The script demonstrates a great and almost unique sense of humor, the filming locations are often extremely enchanting and the action sequences are rough and ingeniously filmed. "Compañeros" is a total winner and highly recommended to fans of the genre.