This is one of the most underrated films of all time. It excels in every area - cinematography, acting, writing, direction, editing and production values. Yet, New York Times Critic Bosley Crowthers dismissed it as just a "colorful film" when it opened in 1944.<br /><br />Yet, scene after scene is brilliant, the comedy works, the romance works, the action works, and the political/philosophical points about the American West work. For example take the comic second scene of the film where Bill Cody has to wait for a letter, while the postman delivers the mail according to rank. "There are many ranker than you," he says. Delicious. There is hardly any romantic scene in a movie that matches Maureen O'Hara being taught Native American mating customs by Joel McCrea. The Battle scenes between the soldiers and Native Americans are as good as anything until "the Magnificent Seven." Politically, it intelligently denounces racism and shows that the Native Americans fought largely in self-defense. At the same time, it shows Native Americans as both fierce in battle and dignified. It makes the point that the only Indian that the Euro-American ever cared about was the Indian inscribed on their money.<br /><br />The movie has great writing and great lines. For example, after the army massacres a group of Native-Americans, Joel McCrea finds the dead body of Linda Darnell. She was his Native-American schoolteacher. He picks up the woman and carries her body in his arms. "A friend of yours?" quips a soldier. "They were all friends of mine," answers Bill.<br /><br />McCrea and O'Hara are flawless in the leads, but the acting is great down the line. Anthony Quinn and Linda Darnell as native Americans have some great scenes. Before he is about to go into battle, Quinn tells himself, the grass will still grow, the sun will still shine and the river will still flow. It eloquently shows the way Native Americans see themselves as part of nature. Darnell is wonderful as she tries to fit in with Euro-American Society only to realize that they will only always see her as an "Indian." This is the perfect Western, both exciting and intelligent. It beats out "Stagecoach," "Cimmaron," "Once Upon a Time in the West," "the Magnificent Seven" and "McCabe and Mrs. Miller" as my favorite Western only because it seems so effortless and modest.