I'm one of those people who try very hard to see the good in everything, even movies, and this film "Cruel World" deserves far more credit than it seems to get, as it is actually rather good. Part of the reason people seem to think it is terrible may be because, whether intentionally or not, the film sets about mocking Reality Television (which is a major part of the film), so while you may watch the film and think that it is rubbish, perhaps that is what the creators want you to think.<br /><br />The premise of the film is an interesting one. A jilted loser, Philip Markham (Edward Furlong) of a bachelorette-style reality show seeks revenge on the woman who turned him down (Jaime Pressley), by killing her and her hot husband (who doesn't appear to be credited unfortunately), then starts his own reality show, where one by one the contestants are killed off - usually by Markham's dimwitted brother, Claude, leaving only the "final girl" (Laura Ramsey). The reality show is presumably fake, that much is not revealed, but it is similar to "Big Brother" in which the nine contestants are all in a confined house and are made to do tasks which determine who gets "sent home".<br /><br />The contestants are certainly a varied group of people, and most have distinct personalities, which is nice to see. Laura Ramsey plays the "final girl" Jenny, and though she is nice, as per usual in many horror movies (horror is one of several genres that are merged in this film), she is rather bland. However, it would seem that Laura Ramsey is off to a nice start in her acting career. Andrew Keegan, in yet another obscure film, plays the "hero", Bobby, and does so with his usual gusto. The lovely Nicole Bilderbeck as Mikko puts up the best fight in her death scene, but her role is relatively small, which is a shame, as for someone who made their debut in the smash hit "Clueless" she hasn't really had as big a career as the others, (she was great in "Bring It On"), but as usual she gives a terrific performance.<br /><br />Sanoe Lake makes her first on screen appearance since "Blue Crush", though one might wonder why she bothered, as she gets nothing to do. Brian Geraghty is terrific as the hot Southern boy Colin, who surprisingly shows the most humanity in the film, especially when placed in a "kill or be killed" situation. Joel Michaely on the other hand plays the terribly annoying gay Jack, who you cannot wait to get "voted off". As far as Edward Furlong goes, playing the villain, he does eccentric well. Daniel Franzese however sure is a step down from his role in "Mean Girls". And as for the lovely Jaime Pressley, she adds a touch of sophistication to the film, and as usual gives a terrific performance.<br /><br />Even if you don't believe that the film is smarter than it sets out to be, at least enjoy some near-mindless fun for 90 minutes.