THE LAST OF MRS. CHEYNEY was not a very good film, though you probably wouldn't suspect that until the film was about half complete. That's because the basic premise and acting were very good. In fact, the film had a super-strong cast--with Joan Crawford, Robert Montgomery, Frank Morgan and William Powell. It's obvious that this was a big-budget MGM film. However, towards the middle, the whole thing became a very stagy and dreadful film--with way too little action and way too much horrid dialog. By the end of the film, instead of improving, the film takes a nose-dive into wretchedness! If you don't believe me, then read on to find out about the terrible plot.<br /><br />Joan plays the title character. She is supposed to be a rich American but is actually a thief working with William Powell's gang. Her goal is to insinuate herself into rich society so she can steal some fancy jewels. However, along the way, she finds that not only are these people very welcoming but nice folks--so nice that it's obvious that she's having a hard time sticking with the plan. However, the gang members won't allow this--even if it's obvious that Powell cares about Joan and wouldn't hurt her himself. So far, this is great stuff and seeing love blossom between Joan and two nice guys (Montgomery and Morgan) made it all the better.<br /><br />Unfortunately, I assume the original writers must have died or suffered massive head injuries because the witty dialog and fascinating story completely lost its way midway through the film. It was as if they'd set up a good story and had no idea where to go. That, or the writers went on strike and were replaced by lemurs! At this point, the film didn't seem to know whether to have Joan prove herself to be decent or a crook--so they made her BOTH!! This made no sense, but what was worse was the reaction her new society friends had when her plan came to light. Now you'd THINK having a jewel thief lie and steal would cause a problem, but in a case of insane script writing, they had the rich folks not only agree to forgive and forget but try to pay her and Powell 10,000 pounds!!! What the heck was this?! No anger, no recriminations but everyone instead being happy and even talking about setting Joan up in business! This was just stupid and .000000003% believable. Talk about contrived and dopey. To make it worse, all they seemed to do for the last 30 minutes or so was talk, talk, talk and talk. It all seemed like mindless prattle after a while.<br /><br />I guess the worst part about all this for me was how utterly wasted William Powell was in the film. He is one of my very favorite actors of his age, yet here his performance is very muted and he's given a very bland part. It was as if he was sleepwalking through the film. As for Robert Montgomery, he was pretty typical of his usual devilish playboy character up until the end--where he was transformed by Joan's allure into a simpering wuss. Ugghh! While she was given crappy material to work with, Joan probably came off the best of the leads in the film---and this isn't saying much.<br /><br />Please understand that of all eras, 1930s films are my very favorite and I adore Hollywood's Golden Age. So my dislike for this film is not because I hate older films. It's just that with so many wonderful films out there (often starring these same actors), this is among the worst of the larger budget MGM films. This film is ONLY for devoted fans of the actors--and even then you might want to think twice about seeing this one.