I was 11 years old when this show came on the air. I thought it was appropriately funny for anyone - I was 11 give me a break- but looking back now yes i would watch it again. The interactions within the cast were very good. Sheriff Lobo ( Claude Akins ) was a little crooked. In case you could not tell he was crooked you merely had to wonder why a Sheriff is driving a brand new CADILLAC SEVILLE???? This was the most expensive personal car in the Cadillac Line of cars $15,000 msrp give or take, and that is in 1979 dollars. Imagine being pulled over by a Cadillac Police car in 2007 Wouldn't you feel nervous ??? The 2007 Cadillac Seville now called simply "STS" is in the starting price range of $50,000. Can anyone say " I need a lawyer, and not a local public defender either". LOL Deputy Perkins (Mills Watson) was so funny also, he was practically joined at the hip to Lobo-LOL I guess he should since they were brothers-in-law. "I'll show you college boy" was always his favorite line when speaking to deputy "Birdie" Birdwell Hawkins (Brian Kerwin)the Mayors son, who was college educated. This usually had me ready to pee my pants, because you just knew whatever he was going to do would blow up in his face. (This is akin to watching Wiley Coyote purchasing Acme products to catch Roadrunner- LOL) In the first season Lobo and the usual gang of crooked outlying county Sheriffs were kings in the fiefdoms of their counties. They all new the others were just as crooked; but don't mess with mine and I wont mess with yours seemed to rule. The show was a spin off from BJ and The Bear (about a Vietnam War soldier saved by a chimp while a POW ) he brings the chimp home to the US. The chimp is his friend -pet and he becomes an owner-operator long haul trucker. In an episode he runs into Orly county and is given the usual harassment money making tickets for being over-weight, speeding etc etc. This gives us an understanding of Orly County politics and policing. All the usual parodies on what we assume crooked cops to be. In one remarkable episode, BJ actually hauls goods for Lobo. Then after off loading and driving out of town, Perkins asks him "are we just gonna let him go sheriff ?" Lobo replies " let him get just outside of town, then give him a ticket for speeding" LOL