With its foreboding name and plot wrapping around a teen prostitution ring one could be forgiven for expecting a sleazy bad taste affair from this one, but creditably it ends up as a restrained and respectful affair with a feel of compassion towards its theme of corrupted innocence. Its plot blasts off with the discovery of a supposed teen suicide from hanging and soon enough develops into investigation of this and the aforementioned vice ring, with matters complicated by a motorcycle riding, leather clad killer. The film operates as something of a crime thriller/police procedural type affair, shot through with splendid scenes involving the aforementioned killer that give it a delicious giallo current. Giovanna Ralli and Claudio Cassinelli make for fine leads, passionate and committed they effortlessly sweep the viewer up with their determination to bust the evildoers at the heart of the whole scandal. Writer/director Massimo Dallamano (screenplay also credited to Ettore Sanzò) crafts an involving tale, sympathetic to all afflicted by the matters at hand with time for emotional scenes as well as some nail biting suspense (including a sweet car chase) and a spot of pleasing bloodshed. Though not especially gory the film still offers up a few grisly doozies, though the best moment effects wise (it involves someones hand) is best seen through adept use of the pause button to focus on the frame or two for which the full glory of the effect is seen. Despite the sordid subject matter the film refrains from sleaze, it is in fact fairly restrained stuff, with its most discomforting moments involving tape recordings rather than anything visual. This approach works pretty well I think, it enhances the feeling that this film actually cares about its subject, a feeling promoted clearly by the "factual" quotes used as bookends. A typically fine Stelvio Cipriani score works well for both innocence and excitement, with the early switch from the pleasant shots of schoolgirls in the street in the opening credits to nasty goings on very much aided by the music. Its not a perfect film, falling down a little in its giallo capacity, great set pieces but not so much in the way of explanation, the ending is a tad abrupt and in general a bit more development could have given it somewhat more of an impact, but for me it was still pretty darn fine. Definitely worth a watch for fans of this sort of thing I think.