When you start to watch this film, it never gets boring. For those who have seen the original, you can see that Romero stayed very close to the original movie with alterations of course which looked like politically correct moves if you ask me. I will get to that later. From beginning to end we see what effect it has on a small group of people locked inside a house. Here the characters are very much like in the original with the exception of Barbara. Her character has changed while the girlfriend of Tom behaves very much like Barbara of the original, even though in the original the girlfriend acts totally different. The characters aren't very likable but we do begin to like to them because they do whatever they can to stay alive during this tragedy. Harry Cooper being the arrogant prick who wants to be in charge, but is defied by Ben who soul purpose is to stay alive and help those around him to stay alive as well. Barbara is the only character that has changed and had adapted to our social standards. At first she get's into shock over the tragedy of losing her brother and being attacked by creatures who appear to be not to be alive at all. But after she meets up with Ben, she starts to change to become as dominant as Ben is. I don't mind that, but it did the original some injustice by turning one of the leads into a dominant lead while in the original she was in shock throughout the movie and get's killed. I think most people might agree that of fear of being called a sexist or being un-PC, they changed Barbara's character. Like I said, I don't mind, but lately that is all we get shoved down our throats in horror movies these days. In most modern horror movies, the men and woman start as equal, probably the men being the dominant, but when tragedy strikes, the women take charge and survive while the men die. The feminists may complain that the original was to sexist because it portrays women as weak and defenseless. Whether or not the Barbara character was altered out of fear of being attacked by feminist groups, I don't know, but I do know that too many horror movies these days are about though, dominant female leads who survive the tragedy that befalls them while the men succumb to the tragedy. It is like women have to prove themselves that they can be emotionally and physically strong. We know that there are both men and women out there who are either one of those and sometimes both. But what is the point of killing of all the characters except of one female one? Oh well, it is probably my fault for not being politically correct all the time. I don't really care if I'm PC or not. Okay, I stop ranting now. Anyway I do recommend this movie to every horror buff in the world and fans of the original. There wasn't much gore present, but than again, there wasn't much gore either in the original. They insinuated the gore instead of showing it. although I do prefer seeing the gore, but the insinuation of it works very well. Afterall Alfred Hitchcok made his career from making movies where everything happens in the human psyche instead of on screen.