Based on the stage play by Robert E. Sherwood, The Petrified Forest is a character study revolving around the idea of what it means to be 'American'. Not being American myself, I have to admit that films like this often get on my nerves; but thanks to well defined characters and some great acting; the only thing that this film can be rated as is a true classic. The film takes place mostly in a gas station in the middle of the desert, and what starts out as a rather impromptu tale of romance turns into something more sinister when a gangster on the loose decides to hide out in the station, taking all of its occupant's hostage. The plot centres on the character of Alan Squier; a failed writer looking for a cause. When he happens upon the gas station, he soon notices the tragic 'desert rat', Gabrielle Maple, and it's not long before she's infatuated with his clever observations and mysterious personality. The two share a tangible link, before he decides to leave. But it's not long before he runs into the aforementioned gangster, and the tensions are revved up when they all end up back at the gas station.<br /><br />The sign behind the bar states that tipping isn't allowed as it's un-American. This idea is rampant throughout the film, and director Archie Mayo makes good use of the capitalist themes. The film works chiefly because its characters are so well defined, and this pays dividends later in the film when their insecurities and motives begin to surface. The film is also a great early showcase for future talent, and although he's not really the star of the film; it isn't surprising that it's Humphrey Bogart's face that adorns the front cover. Bogart is brilliant as the amoral gangster, and his character is brilliantly offset by the likes of Leslie Howard and Bette Davis. Davis would become famous for strong performances in films such as All About Eve and What Ever Happened to Baby Jane, and although her part here doesn't give her that opportunity; she fits into her role well. Leslie Howard gets a little monotonous, but he portrays his character well and delivers a fine lead performance. The desert setting is apt as it conveys the isolation of the situation well and overall this is a perfectly pitched film that makes every aspect work.