When you hear it said that "they don't make movies like that anymore", you can rest assured that "The Petrified Forest" fits into that category. Though set in the sparse, almost barren confines of Black Mesa, Arizona, the film comes to life with sparkling and intelligent dialog that underscores it's mission to give meaning to the lives of it's two protagonists - Allan Squier (Leslie Howard) and Gabrielle "Gabby" Maple (Bette Davis). Squier is a "tourist afoot", hiking his way across the desert to the Pacific Ocean, when he finds himself in an out of the way diner populated by it's owner Jason Maple (Porter Hall), daughter Gabby, Gramp Maple (Charley Grapewin) and an itinerant gas jockey named Boze (Dick Foran).<br /><br />Most will find the film's tension in the presence of escaped killer Duke Mantee (Humphrey Bogart), on the run from the law, and with his gang the object of the "greatest manhunt in history". Delving deeper, it's the conflicting world views expressed by Allan and wistful dreamer Gabby that deliver the film's resonance, even as the immediate life or death threat of Mantee's muscle overtakes the film's second half.<br /><br />"There's something in me that wants something different" is Gabby's lament to Allan, he a world traveler who has given up his dreams as a writer and poet. Penniless, he seems almost trapped in a futile existence, though his brief visit to the Black Mesa Bar-B-Q will soon offer a grand moment of glory. Gabby magically and quickly finds herself head over heels in love with Allan, finding him worldly and intelligent, though to him, intelligence is "brains without purpose". Squier's presence deflates the ego of Gabby's would be boyfriend Boze, who effectively delivers the film's defining comment when viewed in retrospect - "Everybody's entitled to their own way o' thinking".<br /><br />With a handful of films already to his credit, Humphrey Bogart finally gets his hands on a meaty role in the figure of Duke Mantee. By the time his gang makes it's way to Black Mesa, you know he's the man in charge. So does Gramp Maple, who's prior brushes with celebrity include Billy the Kid and Samuel Clemens. Though generally not taken seriously by his diner companions, he's vindicated by the appearance of the Duke - "You can't tell a killer except by his chin". For his part, Bogey affects an odd posture, one that won't be seen again in any other film; he bows his arms across the front of his body in an almost ape like stance giving added menace to his authority.<br /><br />Earlier, Mantee and his cohorts hijacked the vehicle of a wealthy businessman named Chisholm (Paul Harvey). Representing industrializing America, he's everything his wife detests, hating herself for a loveless marriage and denouncing his timidity in the face of danger. As Allan and Gabby share a passionate conversation, director Archie Mayo poignantly frames their face to face encounter around the background features of Mrs. Chisholm, dramatizing the lost purpose and vitality of a woman who gave in to her family's wishes instead of her own.<br /><br />Ultimately, Allan Squier strikes on the one defining idea that will give his life some meaning and purpose, he will sign over his five thousand dollar life insurance policy to Gabby so she can use the proceeds to return to France to live out her artistic dream. To make it come true, Duke Mantee will have to kill Allan. Mantee has no qualms about the proposal, but has no personal quarrel with Allan and seems rather to almost enjoy his company. Squier must force the issue, so that "As long as I live, I'll be grateful to the Duke".<br /><br />"The Petrified Forest" covers a lot of ground, and even manages to reflect on racial constructs in the exchange between the two black men in the film. Slim Thompson is Duke's driver, but a man in his own right freely challenging and offering advice to his boss. On the other hand, Chisholm's chauffeur Joseph is typecast as the subservient employee, who has to ask permission to have a drink when offered by Slim. The scene lasts only a few seconds, but long enough for the symbolism to jump out and grab the viewer.<br /><br />Having just viewed "The Petrified Forest" for the fourth time, I'm even more in awe now of the film's powerful story and the director's deft use of it's principals and supporting characters. There's not a wasted moment, and every scene seems to have a purpose, even if it's a rolling tumbleweed across the desert landscape. They just don't make them like that anymore.<br /><br />Bette Davis made her film debut in 1931 in "The Bad Sister", a movie that also included Humphrey Bogart. The two would team up again an incredible five more times by 1939, in order - "Three On A Match", "The Petrified Forest", "Marked Woman", "Kid Galahad", and "Dark Victory". Davis was top billed each time over Bogey; oddly Bogart usually wound up in supporting roles in most of his Warner Brothers films when teamed with fellow contract players Davis, James Cagney and Edward G. Robinson.