"The Killing of a Chinese Bookie" is, in either version, one of the most overlooked masterpieces from a decade that turned out many. It was generally scorned upon the initial release, so Cassavetes decided to re-edit the film drastically and attempt to give it another go two years later. Obviously this was a very personal project for Cassavetes, but it was still regarded as a failure for the acclaimed director. While its reputation has grown a bit in stature, the critical opinion is still very mixed. This is a shame, because it's one of the most daring and original films I've ever seen. Is it a pulpy neo-noir, a character study, or an existentialist primer? In truth, its really all three and works so well with its unpredictable combination in a way only "Blow-Up" could match. Many viewers were infuriated by the fact it isn't really a thriller and doesn't offer any easy resolutions. To be honest, I disliked the film when I first saw it. However, this is one of those works you continue to think about, and revisits help reveal it's true power. Again, "Blow-Up" is another film which works in the same manner.<br /><br />Cassavetes' direction is very interesting. Its stylish while being minimalist at the same time, but this time around its even grittier and more claustrophobic than his previous work. As stated above, the reason Cassavetes hoped this film was going to be more of a success was how personal it is. The film's nature is ambiguous, but one possible reading is that its all a metaphor for Cassavetes, the artist, being forced to compromise for commercial interests. The main character of Cosmo and the washed-up nightclub entertainer Mr. Sophistication could both be stand-ins for the director.<br /><br />The acting helps this out a lot, but film buffs will be unsurprised because of the great character actors involved. As the strip club owner Cosmo, Ben Gazzara invests a great deal of subtlety and depth into a character who could have come across as being an unlikable sleaze. He manages to make Cosmo have both of those sides and ultimately sympathetic as well. Timothy Carey, one of the most unique actors ever, steals the show with another fascinatingly surreal performance. The film is very low-key in nature, so it's good to have Carey on hand to occasionally liven the proceedings up. Seymour Cassell is also good as the untrustworthy and two-sided mobster who wants to take Cosmo down. "The Killing of a Chinese Bookie" won't appeal to all tastes, but its really their loss. The film is one of the most fascinating and multi-layered ever made. Don't start here for Cassavetes, but this represents the pinnacle of his massively important contributions to cinema. (10/10)