When I first saw this movie I was like 3 or 4 years, and I thought of it as one of the greatest adventures in the world. But after a short while I realized there are many sad parts in it, especially the good bye party. I'm 21 now, and I'm still watching this movie over and over. I found out that no other cartoon has as beautiful loving parts filled with love as this one, but on the other side it is one of the most negative cartoons I've ever seen. <br /><br />Remember, right at the beginning Charlie Brown cuts his hand and is yelling at Snoopy. The other day Snoopy is very drastically fighting with Linus over a blanket(?). Next he goes boxing with with Lucy, ends up with a shoe in his face. Then we see as Lila is in the hospital, very sad music under it. Then Snoopy is thrown out of the beach because of the NO DOGS ALLOWED sign. He runs away from home to see Lila and meets this little girl who wants to keep Snoopy and Woodstock. Turns out to be a freak and beats Snoopy because of the tea SHE spills out on his dress. After they try to run away she takes Snoopy to the Vet where by sounds we can assume some pretty bad things happening. Meanwhile Charlie Brown is really sad. Snoopy gets to the hospital after a journey full of NO DOGS ALLOWED signs. Snoopy is hesitating with whom to stay Lila or Charlie. Snoopy goes home to say good-bye to his friends which is the saddest part in the movie. Snoopy goes to Lila and while leaving his Doghouse with the "For sale or to let" sign on it Woodstock runs after him crying while we can hear this really sad song in the background which later Charlie Brown is singing in his deep depression. This is the last sad part in the movie thank God, because when I'm watching it I cant manage to watch the whole movie with dry eyes. <br /><br />Thus the movie has VERY beautiful and happy and lovely parts in it. One of my favorite parts is when Peppermint Patty and Charlie Brown are at the amusement park and are talking about love and Charlie touches Patty's hand.<br /><br />This movie has marked my life for a lifetime positively and negatively. When I'm sad I just think of how Snoopy begins to laugh in the library. No wonder I always get upset when see somebody kick someone in the leg like Snoopy did to Linus,etc.<br /><br />I would recommend this movie to everyone because its beautiful, but warn children with weaker soul( I just cant find the right expression), because it can leave serious marks in a child's life. You can never get enough of this movie.Its brilliant Its beautiful yet very disturbing.