WARNING: These comments MAY contain some phrases that might be taken as "spoilers". So, if you have NOT played this Playstation game yet and don't want to know ANYTHING about it, stop reading NOW!<br /><br />Out of all the games made for the Jurassic series, i believe this is the most fun. Hardly any of the games followed the movies or books very well, and this one sort of follows it, but the point of this game that made it so much fun was the character selection. As you move on to beat levels, you receive the benefit (sometimes) of becoming a different character from the movie "The Lost World: Jurassic Park". You start out as a procompsognathus (or "compy" for short) and as you proceed through the game, you become a velociraptor, a tyrannosaur, a human hunter, and human prey. Each character had it's own advantages and disadvantages and it was neat to explore the island of Isla Sorna at different viewpoints. The behavioral features of the characters made this really fun, because by standing still for a bit (as a dinosaur) your character would look around and move its' body in amusing dinosaur fashions. It was also neat how, in order to gain life as a dinosaur, you had to eat your victims. Besides, nothin beats jumping on the head of your victim as a velociraptor and clawing them to death :) Hey, it's what the fans want! I'd have to say the only other game in this series to really get the nod of approval would be Jurassic Park for Sega Genesis (where you also could play as a velociraptor).<br /><br />This game also features music from an amazing young composer: Michael Giacchino. His music truly is in the spirit of John Williams work from the movies. The score draws the gamer in to the game and provides an extra level of movie-ness to the game.<br /><br />All-in-all this a good game. Besides the surprising lack of fun being a tyrannosaur (you move slow and you're an easy target, but it's still neat in it's own way since he's basically a rampaging house!), this game gives a unique perspective on this series and i hope to see more games like it in the future, especially for the next installment to the Jurassic films.