Fanaa is a gripping tale of true love, terrorism, loss, and freedom. It's also about making the right choices, and listening to your heart, which is cheesy but kind of true.<br /><br />Zooni Ali Beg (Kajol) is a beautiful, confident, witty Kashmiri girl, whose only problem in life is the fact that she can't see. She's blind. Despite this, she shares a warm and loving relationship with her parents, Nafisa (Kiron Kher) and Zulfikar (Rishi Kapoor), who adore their daughter and always dream of her finding her 'prince'. Zooni travels to Delhi with her friends, who are also her dance troupe, for a performance, and secretly hopes to bump into love on the way. Once in Delhi, Zooni meets Rehan, their tour guide, who has a roving eye for women. Rehan is completely fascinated by Zooni, and she by him, despite her friends' warnings about his Casanova personality. Rehan shows Zooni how to see without her eyes. How to view Delhi's beauty despite her blindness, and bowls her over with his poetry. The two soon fall in love, and Rehan admits Zooni to a hospital for an operation that will regain her vision. Zooni's eyes open, but they never see Rehan. He was killed in a bomb blast by IKF - Independent Kashmiri Front - a ruthless organization that desire an independent Kashmir. Zooni's world is destroyed, and she returns home, where she later delivers a baby boy, who she names Rehan Jr, in memory of her love. Seven years later she gets a desperate knock on the door, by a wounded army officer in need of urgent medical attention. Zooni helps nurse him back to health, but she has no idea how this one man can turn her world even more upside down, and cause her to make decisions in life that she never thought she could.<br /><br />Kajol owned all the way through. I though Aamir was very good also but just could not match her. She looked completely stunning and held the top spot till the end. I strongly believe this is one of her best performances, and was quite surprised because I have seen a lot of Kajol's movies and I have never thought she'd play a blind girl with so much conviction. But she was amazing. Aamir was not as powerful compared to his female counterpart but he was extremely convincing as Rehan. But I liked him much more in the 1st half, sprouting poetry. He looked a little old in the 2nd half, which was slightly off-putting. Tabu delivered a very fine performance, second only to Kajol. Her new look really suited her and she was great as the intelligent Anti-Terrorist official. Rishi Kapoor and Kiron Kher were perfectly cast as Zooni's parents, and an honourable mention goes to Ali Haji, who played Rehan Jr. He was so cute and outstanding for his age. Shiny Ahuja and Lara Dutta made small, forgettable appearances.<br /><br />For me the best thing about Fanaa was the chemistry between Aamir Khan and Kajol. They were superb individually and when they were together it was even better. Some of Aamir's best moments were when he was with Kajol, and vice versa. I never thought they'd make a good on-screen couple but I was proved wrong.<br /><br />The soundtrack of Fanaa is a big plus point. Each track is beautiful and I thought worked very well in the film. My favourite was 'Mere Haath Mein', a lovely song with even an even better picturization. Not forgetting that Sonu Nigam and Sunidhi Chauhan together is like sex on lyrics!:) 'Des Rangila' is an inspirational melody, and 'Chand Sifarish' has a really catchy tune to it. 'Dekho Naa' is also worth a mention, I loved the way it was used to create a romantic mood. The dialogues and choreography were great.<br /><br />All in all, Fanaa is a very well made movie, that isn't exactly up to the standard that Kunal Kohli set with Hum Tum, but close. And Kajol's performance makes it worth it.