A great made after the comedy Hum Tum. Kunal have done a brilliant job. He had wrote the dialogs, the story brilliantly. I think its totally different film of Indian cinema. As bollywood freak I recommend this film to all audience even to kids too. Its has huge stars and brilliant director. Kunal gave his best even more than Hum Tum. Way to go Kunal you surely winning in this year. Nominations for sure even awards too. I believe you deserve more this year than Karan Johar from KANK. The direction you made has been the best. I even liked KANK but after I saw Fanaa I think its a way different film and making its mark separate from all films from past. The direction of Kunal has been the best direction I seen so far this year. This film should win the best-playback and direction as well. The film stars huge cast for sure. It has Rishi Kapoor whom I really adore. He is brilliant even in small role of a father. Aamir Khan is superb just superb. I can't even say in words how he gave his performance. Great comeback from KAJOL. I am a huge fan of her since I began seeing films. Kajol is the best actress ever of new generation.<br /><br />After K3G she has made a great come back. Her performance is just brilliant. Its just marvelous. She was truly character in the film. It for one second you can't say that she is not acting as blind. Her acting is better than Rani from black. I don't say Rani didn't act good but she was good but Kajol is the best in blind role. The film is a must see. When you think you know whats happening but the second next you don't. The dialogs are written brilliantly. The lyrics are just very touchy. The music is worth it that you can't even comment because it's from the soul. Sonu sang the song beautifully. The Tere haath main mera haath ho. This song is sang by Sonu Nigam beautifully. I think he should win awards this year from this song from Fanaa. The tittle song from Kank he also sang brilliantly but he sang this song even better. Yashraj are still ruling. Making the greatest movies. Bollywood awards sometimes are differ from our choices but if i was the jury I would the award for best director of this film. I would also give Sonu for best playback singer from Tere Haath mein Mera haath ho. I would also give the award for best story and dialogs . An excellent film. I am sure this film is getting many awards but these i mentioned I think it should be the winners. As far as acting Kajol is the best and should get an award too. Aamir is brilliant but I think Shah Rukh has acted better in KANK. Kirron Kher is in both so i can't say but she is not much in this film. I give this film 1000000 out of 1000000.