I have to begin by saying that I am an avid B-movie fan, especially when it comes to sharks. I have had some good laughs at deep blue sea and Jaws 4, but rarely has a movie been so bad that it breaches (no pun intended) bad and moves to just plain annoying. I agree with a previous fan that the best part of the entire movie was the old man slowly removing his hat in sorrow. And can I ask a question? How did the main character (the one who doesn't die) get to all of the places that he shows up in in the beginning of the movie. I know that there were some major time lapses, wetsuit changes for example, but...what? It was probably just the alien tube, some wormhole door. It's good to know that now a days, when the movie running time is too short, its OK to show clips from previous parts of the movie. That's OK now. And so is showing an actor deliver the same line, but just from a different camera angle. And were all of the actors just placed in this movie because they had no lines as johnny depp's or Angelina Joli's stunt doubles? Oh and I figured out how the lady (who is without oxygen for a substantial amount of time) lives after the explosion of the lab which...gently opens that hatch door. Her lips suffice as an oxygen reserve. Who knew! It's a good thing too, because her husband took that "please secure your own mask before helping others" too an extreme. But I guess over-all the movie wasn't that bad. I mean, I'm sure I never would have thought to use the hundreds of air tanks to breath with once the oxygen ran low. I'm sure I would be too distracted by my inability to act and the symmetrical bursts of fire. I probably would also be distracted by the growling sharks. The only time is was OK for anyone to put a growling noise against a shark was at the end of Jaws when they played an old dinosaur roar for the sinking great white after it had been blown-up. I know the movie was terrible, but it could have been 100 times better (and I only say that because anything times zero is still zero)without the Sahara sound-effects. Oh, and next time they want to use computer animation for sharks, they should just give me a call. They can just use my screen saver. It would save them money, because there is no way they actually made a profit off of this movie, and they could continue on the theme of cutting and pasting footage from other movies. I also have a toy shark that squeaks. Maybe they should just use that. People who loved this movie will also love:<br /><br />~Open Water II (make sure you watch it on an old TV, because will be throwing things at it) ~Shark attack 3 - Megaladon (contains one of the most amazing pick-up lines ever)<br /><br />I will give it a 3. 1 for the old man on the boat. 1 for the made-up alien language. and 1 for better luck on their next film.