I read the comments for the movie and I watched it anyway, yes stupid me. I thought nearly all failures and trivia where summarized but I was stunned by the amount of unmentioned and absolute stupid things I noticed during watching it.<br /><br />First of all I laughed my ass of reading joeytonz comment, leading me to the decision to watch the movie. I really enjoyed "house of the dead" by Uwe Boll (I bet everyone heard of this "famous" man). To this point I rated "hotd" worst movie I've ever seen but also most funniest movie I've ever seen and great for enjoying some cold beer with friends and making fun about errors and bad acting. "Raging Shark" just climbed to the top! It is really, really bad. The stock footage scenes don't fit in there, the actors don't deserve this term and characters are non present, they are just empty talking flesh bags trying to survive the attacks of the growling sharks.<br /><br />I don't know what the editor of this movie was, but not a clever persons, that's a fact. I barely could stop laughing when the female diver tries to find her missing friends and somehow calls their names and communicates with the base. What's funny about that? you might ask... well, did you ever tried to speak with the breathing equipment in your mouth? There's no helmet, no radio, just a simple scuba gear ( in deep sea, can't be healthy). She simply has to be telepathic gifted. There are aliens, so why not? Another example for telepathic gift delivers the man who calls Corin to inform him about the deep sea accident. Just seconds earlier we see a shark destroying the energy and radio-cables and we learn that the ship on the surface can't contact the base and obviously no one knows what's going on below them. Back to the telepath, he describes to Corin in detail what happened at the base, two friends killed (even their names), cables destroyed and various other informations AND the ship can't make ANY contact to the base. So what? how does he know? AFTER that scene we see a diver sent by the ships captain to explore what happened down there. (They need a mini submarine to get to the surface but super-diver can dive the whole way down... sure) OK, we learn he didn't dive down to the base but discovers that the cables are destroyed... noticed something? the telepath knew it long before him.<br /><br />Here's my theory: It wasn't any human who called Corin but the shark who killed the two divers and destroyed the cables himself! There are aliens, people can communicate under water without radio, so why shouldn't a shark call someone to lure a new victim to the scene...<br /><br />By the way time doesn't seem to play any role in this movie. Everything happens instantly, or at least we don't get a single information about time passing between events. in combination with really bad cuts it's simply disturbing.<br /><br />I bet there are a lot more of stupid mistakes I nor the other commentators mentioned but where is the fun if you can't discover some on your own? Summery: lots of errors, plot holes and incredibly stupid stuff to discuss with friends during building up a tower with empty beer bottles. If you're really going to watch the movie ask everyone to shut off ones brain, relax and laugh, discuss and rotate on the floor.