A movie dedicated to the arts. A movie spellbinding enough to woe any audience. A movie so beautiful it gets you speechless. Aaja Nachle, stars the dancing legend Madhuri Dixit, in a comeback role as Dia. Well, as we know her dancing skills are inevitably one of de best Hollywood has seen, to top it up her timeless beauty and on screen grace grabs the attention of any movie lovers. The movie resolves around a controversial topic Where Dia, an average Indian family daughter falls for a white guy and runs away from home due to parental and society objection. Dia, is a dancing student in an arts institution in her hometown India. Her world revolves around Indian arts. When a national geographic photographer comes to town, he is captivated by her and love blossoms. Due to objections from her world, she decides to run away with him to the United States. There she becomes a well established dancer with a dancing school on her name. She returns to India after several years when she hears the news of her dying guru. The man who taught her How to dance. Upon her arrival with her daughter, diva realizes it's too late. Not only her guru has passed away, the arts foundation founded by her guru is left abandon. Political play comes in when a new mall is proposed to be built replacing the history old art centre. Story kicks in with the message from her guru asking her to save his institution, and diva without doubt, takes control and places a bet with the politics involved that she will drive the residences towards her act in saving the country's piece of history. Her hurt always the story moves on with diya recruiting fellow city folks on her play to be staged at the very place she learned to dance. Emotions are collided with manipulations as some try to sabotage her plans. How she over comes it and How she pulls off the play is the climax of the story. The movie emphasizes on musical aspects on portraying emotions and acting. Madhuri radiates her beat in glamour's ways captivating the audiences mind and soul. Songs accompanying the movie transcends generations where classical and modern touches are combined. A must watch movie I would say. Unlike other movies, the story line is different and the movie is made with such perfection that it doesn't give a single cliché aura towards the audience. A must watch movie for its songs, dance sequence, beautiful choreography, beautiful people and definitely a well made top notch story line. Two thumbs up for madhuri and the entire crew of aaja nachle. Kudos!