Ah, The Glass House, this is the movie I've tried to forget, I got dragged to the movie theater with my friends to see this, I just knew that I wasn't going to get into it. I feel bad because I always say to people even if you have a gut feeling that a movie is going to be bad, just try to have an open mind and enjoy the film. My main problem though? I can't stand Leelee Sobieski, seriously, ever since I saw Heaven on Earth, her face just, I can't describe it, she annoys the heck out of me. But I did decide rather than just complain through the whole movie, I would just try to sit and see maybe if the film could have been worth the watch at least, well, I was wrong.<br /><br />After losing their parents, Grace and Dave, in a car accident, Ruby and Rhett Baker are placed under the guardianship of Erin and Terry Glass, former neighbors/parents' best friends and childless couple who live in a large glass house in Malibu. Life is great for both siblings at first. However, Ruby soon discovers that her new foster parents are after the siblings' $4 million trust fund. Ruby discovers that the car her parents died in was a BMW loaned from the Glass' company and suspects that Mr. Glass was responsible for their deaths. Mrs. Glass watches an old home video of her and Ruby on a beach, happy and healthy. Then, overwhelmed with guilt, she overdoses and dies. Ruby wakes up the next morning with Mrs. Glass' dead body lying next to her. Shocked to find his wife dead, Mr. Glass traps Ruby and Rhett in the basement. Eventually, the two escape. After a brutal car accident due to Mr. Glass tampering with his own car in the same fashion as he did with the kids' parents.<br /><br />Honestly, this movie is just a waste of time, it's a very mediocre thriller that is, well for me at least, is just very predictable. The acting is lame as well as the story; but I will compliment the set, if you want me to give this movie a positive comment, there ya go. It's just a weak script, bad cast, and I can't wait to get this bad taste out of my mouth from this stupid movie, just writing this comment is making my health deteriorate. I have to stop, I'm sorry, just stay away from this movie, plant a tree, watch paint dry, that's much more useful then watching this movie.<br /><br />1/10