Hands down this is the best film of the year, and deservingly so. Although Nikhil Advani started off in the backseat, it looks like from now on his job is in the director's chair. With the support of Karan Johar and Papa Yash Johar, it's almost impossible to go wrong. <br /><br />With such blockbusters as Kuch Kuch Hota Hai and Kabhi Khushi Kabhi Gham to his name, Karan Johar is ready to add another feather to his cap with his beautiful and heartwarming Kal Ho Na Ho. Kal Ho Na Ho is directed by Karan Johar's associate director Nikhil Advani and produced by Karan Johar, who has also written the screenplay for the film. Nikhil Advani was Johar's close assistant in all his films including Kuch Kuch Hota Hai, K3G, and Aditya Chopra's Mohabbatein.. The main cast has Shah Rukh Khan, Preity Zinta, Saif Ali Khan and Jaya Bachchan in the lead, and a plethora of others, including Sonali Bendre, in support.<br /><br />Kal Ho Naa Ho takes place in Manhattan, New York, and is the story of three friends, Aman (Shah Rukh Khan), Rohit (Saif Ali Khan), and Naina (Preity Zinta), who travel on a journey that teaches them the true meaning of friendship. It teaches them to discover themselves, and to find the courage to live through times of happiness and times of sorrow. With the constant arguments and bickering in her semi-Punjabi/semi-Christian family, Naina, 23, is completely distraught by the conditions which surround her. In addition to this, she is bombarded with the responsibilities of taking care of her younger brother and sister, as well as helping her mother, Jennifer (Jaya Bachchan) handle the family's economical complications. Between all these burdens, Naina never has time for herself.<br /><br />As far as the technical performance of the film goes, it is almost impossible to create a more perfect film. The editing skills are extremely sound and the cinematography shows the viewers what a difference a few angle adjustments can do for a film. The overall effect of the film is merely jaw dropping, for a lack of a better term. To put all rumors to rest, Kal Ho Na Ho is NOT a copy of Hrikesh Mukherjee's 1970s classic, Anand. Although Nikhil and Karan have adopted a shade of the film, by no means is it a copy, and should be regarded as a purely original story, written by Karan himself.<br /><br />The greatest asset that Kal Ho Na Ho has is its cast. The magnitude of chemistry between Shah Rukh Khan, Preity Zinta, and Saif Ali Khan is mind blowing! Adding Jaya Bachchan to the mix creates for an even more awesome effect. It's safe to say that this is one of Shah Rukh Khan's best performances ever. He breathes so much life into his character, Aman, and literally has you feeling for him as if he was your very own. He puts on a mesmerizing performance and will definitely earn himself many awards.<br /><br />Shankar, Ehsaan, and Loy are a major part of this film as well. There music, which has been topping the charts ever since its release, brings a beautiful touch to the film. Their soft yet mellifluous melodies compliment the film wonderfully. To top it all off, Javed Akhtar's mastery of the language creates for some heart warming lyrics.