(possible spoilers) If you haven't done so already, IGNORE the critics - GO SEE THIS<br /><br />MOVIE! Beyond Borders is definitely worth seeing. Yes, it is a love story which develops over the course of a dozen years. However, amidst that story, stark and ongoing brutal realities experienced by so many in the world are depicted - and therein lies the importance of this film. It is thought provoking on many levels. On a performance level, the supporting cast filled their roles well. I couldn't help but be drawn into liking particular characters and was especially attentive to a young man's story of his "dance" with a landmine. How haunting. Both Jolie (Sara Jordan, English socialite) and Clive Owen( Dr. Nick Callahan) come through with strong performances. I give credit to director Martin Campbell for respecting the dignity of refugees and using generated images as appropriate, rather than exploiting people unnecessarily . This wasn't meant to be a documentary. Although a few situations might have been developed more realistically (hence 8/10 stars), the movie flowed and kept my full attention despite it's two hour plus length. I found the ending both unexpected and powerful. The imagery of Beyond Borders, both visual and verbal , gives pause for thought : Like Sarah Jordan, aid-relief workers most likely have those in their personal lives who say "don't go, it's not safe there," yet they remain motivated to go anyway. Who are the Dr. Callahans who travel to yet another location once their camp is shutdown - perhaps because of reparation or funding cuts? Why the cuts and what is the full impact? Could more be done? How many workers are injured/killed in the field and how do those situations really come about? Or I know of no place in this country where I might walk and be in danger of stepping on a landmine.... but as I sit in a theater eating popcorn, there is a strong possibility someone, somewhere, did and that happens too often. Maybe the price of that ticket and popcorn once a month could start helping UNHCR or HALO or someone... Yes, entertaining films have their place, but others like Beyond Borders carry the hope of lasting impact. Kudos to all those involved in putting this film together.