The problem with science fiction anymore is the increasingly unoriginal concepts that are up and coming. Instead, remaking or reinstating old classics. Not so, the case with Dark City. Probably one of the most overlooked films of our time, Dark City tells the tale of a man who wakes in a world with no memory of what is going on around him. In essence, we are in the same boat. He goes through searching for clues and trying to survive the touch of the Strangers, a race that houses more purpose to these people than they could possibly know. With the help of their human doctor, they conduct experiments. Our hero jumps in to not only understand them but to free us all. Your first thought in seeing this movie is probably, 'Wow, how similar this is to The Matrix.' With exception to the fact that it came out before The Matrix ever graced it's previews, there are similarities. I have said many times to people, this is how the other two should have ended up. Hey, if your going to take something, may as well take it all. Anyway, moving on. Dark City is brilliant. The action sequences alone are suspenseful, and to this day I watch and pick up new things. Note that there are spirals throughout all of the film. Also, the acting. A good sci-fi must perpetuate good acting in order to sell this fiction as a possible reality. To start, Rufus Sewell, a fine thespian indeed. Not only does he sell the newborn man, but he also makes you feel a certain sense of sorrow for him. Next on the plate is the ever great William Hurt. I can say that I've only seen a handful of films he's been in, but anytime I do, he is phenomenal. Dark City is no exception. He plays the inspector, bent on finding a killer but realizes the case has nothing to do with this life. Next comes Kiefer Sutherland, a fantastic choice for this film indeed as the Igor mad scientist. What you come to find out is that he is helping the enemy because he has no choice. The work Kiefer does with his voice takes you to a different thought process of who it is, making you feel sorry for his character more than Sewell's. Fourth down the line comes the lovely Jennifer Connelly, now an academy award winner, and rightfully so. She shines as much as she can in this sci fi feature where she plays a smaller role than people think. And last, but certainly not least, comes Mr. Richard O'Brien. He redefines what the term evil villain means. His vocal work, though not sure if it's his voice or an imitation, is superb. I can't go a day without thinking of high pitched voice as he spouts the line "We use your dead as vessels", and then a snarl. All in, one of the better films in history, I would definitely place this on my top ten list.<br /><br />10 out of 10.