Any resemblance between President Bill Clinton and the Harrison Ford Chief Executive in Wolfgang Petersen's far-fetched, entertaining, but woefully predictable skyjacking saga "Air Force One" ends when Ford's fantastic First Guy starts knocking off the villains. Nevertheless, the parallels between Clinton and Marshall appear clearly obvious. Harrison Ford's President James Marshall is married to a tenacious, headstrong wife in the Hilary mode, and they have a 12-year old daughter. (So was Bill Pullman's president in "Independence Day.") Unlike Clinton, President Marshall flew helicopter rescue missions in Vietnam and received a Medal of Honor. No, the filmmakers refuse to identify President James Marshall's party affiliation, which make "Air Force One" impartially political, while it trumpets America's anti-terrorist stance.<br /><br />Andrew W. Marlowe's melodramatic screenplay shows more agility than innovation. While his characters emerge as largely one-dimensional stick figures, the dimensions of their predicaments assume nothing less than cataclysmic proportions. Marlowe's script keeps Harrison Ford leaping through enough flaming hoops to fill three movies. Like several other summer blockbusters, Marlowe's script does not know when to throw in the towel. Just about everything that can happen aboard "Air Force One" occurs. Presumably, with the recent spate of skyjacking movies, it was only a matter of time before Hollywood appropriated both Air Force One and the President as the pulp of their fictional escapade.<br /><br />The movie opens in slam-bang style with an elite American commando team parachuting into Kazakhstan at night. Using the latest hi-tech gear, they kill the palace guards and abduct an adversarial Russian leader, General Radek (Jurgen Prochnow of "Das Boot"), who is promptly incarcerated in a Soviet hoosegow. Three weeks later in Moscow, President Marshall stipulates that the U.S. refuses to negotiate with terrorists. Meanwhile, a ruthless ultra-nationalist Radek zealot, Ivan Korshunov (Gary Oldman of "True Romance"), succeeds in smuggling his bogus TV news crew aboard the most secure plane in the world. A disgruntled Secret Service agent, Gibbs (Xander Berkeley of "L.A. Takedown"), as we later learn, helped these guys obtain their security clearance. Once the plane is airborne, Korshunov and his men commandeer it, kill the pilots, and watch helplessly s the president ejects in his escape pod. (Does anybody remember "Escape from New York?") Ivan contacts the Vice President (Glenn Close) and vows to kill a hostage every half-hour until Radek walks away from prison. According to Defense Secretary Walter Dean (Dean Stockwell), Radek's release would bring down the pro-American regime in the Kremlin and bring back the Cold War, so the Russians are reluctant to set him free unless President Marshall makes the request personally for Radek's release.<br /><br />The filmmakers cannibalize in typical Hollywood fashion every neat idea from all the other skyjacking thrillers. Generally, "Air Force One" follows the formula of the Kurt Russell hit "Executive Decision." Both movies start with a commando raid and then shift to terrorists hijacking a jetliner before an unconventional hero makes his entry. You can tell that Marlow evidently watch the Wesley Snipes thriller "Passenger 57" for one scene. Another scene features a stunt that appeared in both "Airport 75" and "Cliffhanger." The president here imitates the action heroes from the Bruce Willis "Die Hard" franchise and the Steven Seagal "Under Siege" movies. Finally, the "Air Force One" ending should come as no surprise to any "Star Trek" movie veterans. Anybody who thrives on movies like an insomniac will spot these plot elements. Although "Air Force One" borrows heavily from other epics, the staging of the action and some new scenes in the skyjacking formula boost this opus over the rough spots.<br /><br />Anybody familiar with German director Wolfgang Petersen will recognize the affinity between "Air Force One" and his earlier classic U-boat thriller "Das Boot"/"The Boat" (1981). The casting of "Das Boot" star Jurgen Prochnow as the heinous General Radek aids in this comparison. Moreover, Petersen sends his highly mobile and energetic cameras plunging about the corridors of "Air Force One" with the same dexterity that they swept through the hull of the sub in "Das Boot." Despite a connect-the-dots plot, Petersen makes every dot a fire storm of intensity. The scene where the President's jet careens wildly across the airfield in Germany and nearly crashes is pretty harrowing.<br /><br />Ford's presidential protagonist is basically Indiana Jones in a suit and tie. The filmmakers rely on Ford's action hero charisma to compensate for the lack of depth in his inadequately sketched head of state. Shrewdly, they shift gears to the parental side of the chief executive. Ford's best scenes occur before take-off when he asks about his favorite football game. Although Marshall emerges as a cardboard politician, it's his "Die Hard" courage that wreathes him with laurels. Unlike those wimpy Jack Ryan movies "Patriot Games" and "A Clear and Present Danger," Harrison Ford's hero here kills the villains. The bad guys don't slip out of Marshall's clutches and conveniently impale themselves on sharp objects. (Remember the way the "Patriot Games" villain died?) Marshall runs up a body count, kills with a machine gun, snaps necks, and slugs it out with rough and tumble adversaries. Ford is one of the few male box office stars who can shed tears (when Ivan threatens to pull the trigger on his daughter) and not make it look schmaltzy. Ford manages to maintain a stiff upper lip throughout "Air Force One" and his scenes with bad guy Gary Oldman crackle with electricity. Ultimately, however, Ford's performance qualifies as serviceable, nothing truly special like the cop the played in "The Devil's Own" (1997).<br /><br />The real casting coup in "Air Force One" is Glenn Close as Vice President Kathryn Bennett. Close manages to hold her own in a room packed with veteran male character actors like "Quantum Leap's" Dean Stockwell who constantly bullies Close to usurp presidential authority. Although certainly not the most original skyjacking melodrama, "Air Force One" manages to add elements to the formula and boasts enough visceral R-rated violence to keep you distracted throughout its 124-minute running time.