LOL, that just summed up the whole movie, didn't it? So last night I was looking for a movie to watch and in my mom's collection I found "Air Force One" and I noticed that Harrison Ford was in it, so I figured I would give it a look. So I watched it and all I can say is American Propaganda much? Now I'm all American, don't get me wrong, I love my country, but this was a bit much and incredibly insulting. If we really had a president like James Marshall, played by Ford, I'd say America would be a very exciting place of nothing but none-stop action. The whole movie either took itself too seriously or then would get into an Arnold Schwartzenegger type of action movie where Ford would say that little one liner before the big climax. Oh, I loved the 25 endings of how they could keep the action going. Now I love action movies, don't get me wrong, but this story was just silly and unnecessary.<br /><br />President James Marshell is on the fight of stopping terrorism, Russian terrorism to be more specific. Well he boards his flight back to the states, Air Force One starts off well, but is quickly hijacked by Ivan Korshunov and his men, terrorists who want their General Radek released from prison in return for the passengers on board, which isn't good since I guess he was hard to capture and is a deadly terrorist. Ivan makes threats to kill of the passengers every half hour if the vice president does not meet his demands. But the President does not chicken out, he stays on board and will fight these terrorists and win back the plane.<br /><br />Air Force One is non-stop action with a mixture of the hit TV show West Wing. Like I said, I don't mind an action movie, sometimes I love the most cliché'd one's, but not when it comes to serious stuff like terrorism, but I think I'm speaking from a post 9/11 view, so maybe if I saw this movie a before then, I wouldn't have mind it that much, but even then, there were moments that were terribly over acted and for me, it just didn't work for having a president like James Marshall, please, I wish. I can't wait to see President Bush on top of a tanker sporting a look like Rambo, but I guess I shouldn't hold my breath.<br /><br />4/10