A good example for convincing that Turkish filmmakers CAN do good movies too.<br /><br />The story been told is presented in a sharp way and not interfered to prove any moral ideas (except for the end of the movie).Because the story itself has a lot to say and makes it easier for the director to show the causes of events. But it seems that director couldn't stand keeping the story this way until the end. It's not a surprise that such events in the movie inspire a mixture of intense feelings such as desperation and vengeance. Well that's where the director fell into the trap. If the movie did not end the way it did and the audience left the movie with the realistic consequences of a brutal event's after(not left with the relief that the bad got what they deserved), it could be much affective to establish the sense that the director passionately believed. It seems that director kept his words for the end. The world is changing and now we do can make differences and are not that desperate. That's why the ending is unnecessarily long. To listen to the director!<br /><br />Rest of the movie is a way different story. The characters really remind you easily like "oh man, this is gonna be bad!" just by their existence. The struggle between two different way of understanding life is just simply screened. The clues for causes behind the physical violence are "injected" slowly, consciously and agreeably. The places and characters are familiar with the usual life we have.<br /><br />I don't agree with the idea that the violence shown is unnecessarily much. On the contrary, you just happen to understand that a very brutal action carries on while you don't actually see it. It just gives you the clue of the action but not unnecessarily giving. This is not a "Hostel" type movie. I also found it absurd to define a true story been filmed as a teenagers daydreams. It seems that the main point here is missing. Yes, the jail scenes are not that convincing. And yes, the director became a little emotional. But that shows you even the filmmaker could not resist responding to the manner in the way we "common people" respond. And it proves that the actual problems of our society is reminded. (Maybe not that deliberately but that's the result.)