Like Arrested Development and Futurama, Freaks and Geeks is one of those shows that has more power as a martyr than it did in life. Cancelled after 12 episodes in 1999-2000, some years later James Poniewozik of Time magazine named it as one of the 100 greatest TV shows of all time.<br /><br />Is it as good as people say? After watching the first six episodes, I found it was pretty good, but the humour doesn't quite work for me. Despite some sharp jokes (a Jewish student notes that he was elected treasurer without even running), it just didn't click with me. Except for when one girl is instructed by her parents to compliment her brother's body, and she takes it a step too far ("I'm With the Band").<br /><br />But Freaks and Geeks isn't just a comedy, it's a dramedy. And as a drama, it works. That's not surprising considering the quality. The writing is smooth- indeed, this show got nominated for two Emmys for writing. The acting is competent; they manage to sound real even when the script has them freaking out, to an incredible degree ("Kim Kelly Is My Friend"). The characters and story lines are appealing. Set in 1980 in Michigan (although there's not a lot of difference between the show and the real life high school experience now), the show follows the "freaks"- ie. the slackers- and the geeks. They're relatable (personally, I was a geek) and most are sympathetic. The main character is Lindsay who transitions from geek to freak, a smart move since the makers of the show balanced the freaks and geeks by focusing on the character who was a bit of both. Linda Cardellini plays her well. It also allows for some drama as Lindsay's parents are concerned about the direction their daughter's life is taking. Other characters are incredibly cruel (including Kim Kelly and her friend who wrote on a geek's locker), but then, high school was like that. The show has impact- at a scene where a geek is paid to eat a disgusting drink concocted by his friends, I cringed, and seeing a boy having to run through the school naked was intense. When the characters were awkward, I felt their pain. The show is realistic and unique at the same time. I couldn't deny that.