Freaks and Geeks, though unfortunately short lived, is, perhaps, the greatest show in the history of television. Like other fantastic series, this one does not fall into any distinct categories, administering equal doses of humor and pathos and tears. Each episode, really, defies all expectations. There're the uproarious episodes (like the Halloween one or the Nick Disco one) and then there's Kim Kelly is My Friend (not shown on network TV due to its subject matter) and the story arc following Neal and his dad's disintegrating relationship. Yet, even in the darkest episodes there're at least a couple belly laughs and in the funniest a couple dark moments. Feig and his writers' ability to so seamlessly blend comedy and drama into a single show reveals tremendous talent - a talent, perhaps, more suited to the big screen. That's why Freaks often seems like the greatest TV show ever; it's completely unlike TV, but it's very much like film.<br /><br />The show also rises above most of its competition due the talent of its cast. Each young actor is so convincing that I can't quite imagine them being anyone but their character. It doesn't seem like any of them are actually acting. I would expect Sam and Neal and Bill to behave like the were I to meet them tomorrow in a mall.<br /><br />The same goes with the Freaks. Watching the out-takes, though, you notice that, in fact, that is not even remotely the case. Who knew that Martin Starr (Bill) is not the hugest dork on the planet? Who knew that Busy Phillips is not a raging bitch? On every level, this show is superior to most others. The writing, the acting - even the photography (which looks like it was location shooting rather than set-shooting) - are all fantastic. It's truly a shame that this show never made it into a second season. Sure, it's better to burn out than to fade away, but the writers and actors had a few more years of this show in them. Regardless, Freaks and Geeks is an absolute masterpiece that, like Twin Peaks, the Simpsons, the Office, and most of Happy Days, shows what TV can be.