This was the first of the series that I have seen, having nothing else to do this afternoon and having seen most everything else in theatres that I wanted to see. SPOILERS HEREIN<br /><br />The first segment, entitled "L.T.R," chronicles the relationship of two young twenty something boys (emphatically "boys") who meet and "fall in love." They invite a videographer to tape a documentary about the weeks that follow until the relationship is shown to take a turn that neither boy expects. Hopefully, what transpires in the weeks that pass teaches the boys that there is a marked difference between love and lust. This one is by far and away the funniest segment.<br /><br />"O Beautiful," the second segment, was by far and away the most touching. It begins with a boy having just been sexually violated and beaten up by other boys in a dark cornfield. We're spared seeing the attack as the scene begins immediately thereafter. The victim is approached by a young man who arrives on the scene and does what he can to comfort the victim first by wiping the blood from the boy's face, giving him his jeans, and later his letterman's jacket. The "rescuer" at one point starts to sing "America the Beautiful" at one point while they are engaged in debate over the victim's homosexuality and the brutality of the attack. The rescuer advises the victim in a none too tactful way that he was essentially a victim because his actions displeased God. Although the boy who rescues the victim at first tells him that he left the scene before the attack began, he later admits that he stood and watched while the attackers stripped the boy naked from the waist down and allegedly violates him with a stick. Obviously, it's a stretch of suspended belief that the guy is not bleeding to death from the damage that such an act would cause his internal organs. The segment ends with the rescuer, who basically admits that he was wrong not to protect the victim from the onset and gives him his pick-up truck which the injured boy then drives away in leaving his "rescuer" in the middle of the cornfield at night. An understandable, but unsatisfying ending. The acting could have been much better, I would have liked to have seen tears instead of attempts to generate them, but still the most moving of all four segments.<br /><br />"Bumping Heads" tells the story of a 35 year old man, Craig, and his twenty something companion, Gary, who are in the emergency room of a hospital as a result of a fight Craig was involved in in a local gay bar. Craig made the unfortunate mistake of trying to save Gary from an lecherous stranger in the back room of the bar, and gets his noggin cracked for his efforts. The physician treating Craig assumes that the two men are lovers because of the way they treat one another, i.e., fawning, finishing one another's sentences, etc. Turns out, Gary has a long term lover who lives on the west coast (the story taking place on the east) and had never mentioned it to Craig. Craig makes one last effort out of many to entice Gary into a romantic relationship that fails miserably because he thinks he has convinced both himself and Gary that the two of them would be great together. This segment, to me at least, was the least interesting and almost pointless.<br /><br />Finally, "This Car Up," which is told quite imaginably (you have to see it for yourself), about two men who seem diametrically opposed to one another in every possible way. Pete is a suit in a downtown office building, Adrian is a multiply-pierced bicycle messenger who have a chance encounter when Pete takes a smoke break outside his office building. They're each smitten by the other and, in the end, find romance in form of a lingering kiss in the building's elevator. The kind of kiss that only two straight actors (I'm willing to bet) can share; no tongues. This is the only story that ends with the proverbial "happy" attached.