Creating a Hollywood-quality film from a potentially political and sticky subject is no easy task. I believe politics calls this 'diplomacy.' Following, this film has as one of its main strengths the ability to reveal the realities of both sides of an issue without provoking offense or anger. Instead, it very skillfully provokes thought as it unfolds the story and experiences of both sides of a heated issue that is at the very core of this film. This is what impressed me most. Secondly, I was impressed by the Hollywood quality of the film, the plot, the actors and filmography. This is no third-rate film. The writers and producers are obvious professionals. The film description mentions a surprise ending, but you still won't be prepared for it; it will leave you thinking about the ramifications of this issue long after the screen goes black. Thirdly, I was impressed by the fact that I don't believe a film of this type has ever been created or attempted. It is purpose-driven, and yet, it neither condemns nor judges anyone. The movie inspired me to sport some related bumper stickers on my car, and to tell others to see it and to make them think about this most important issue. Really, is just three inches the only difference between murder and legality?? We are all to be held accountable for our actions, yet, God can forgive anyone who sincerely asks. My only wish? I wish it were longer! I would like to know where the film will be available and will it available on the big screen soon, or only through stores? I hope that more thought-provocative yet diplomatic films like this one will be created in the future to cause humanity to think about its actions and how far it has gone with the right-to-this and the right-to-that to justify them. Some decisions are just beyond personal rights. The film, by nature, invites one to see it for themselves, analyze the subject content and draw their own conclusions. So see it for yourself, examine the current legal system and find your voice at the end of this moral journey. The Thunder may be closer than you think ..