The Untouchables is a well-made, well-acted gangster story from director Brian (Scarface) De Palma. One thing you can virtually always guarantee from a De Palma movie is flamboyance, and this is no exception. Not content with a compelling story, the director has thrown in a series of his typically bravura set pieces, the best of which is a truly outstanding railway station shootout. <br /><br />Treasury agent Eliot Ness (Kevin Costner) is working in Prohibition-era Chicago when he realises that a fair bit of crime, particularly bootlegging, is going unnoticed. Most of the city cops either haven't realized it's happening or have chosen to turn a blind eye. Ness soon learns that the criminal underworld is controlled by ruthless gangster Al Capone (Robert De Niro), who men on both sides of the law fear to tackle. Aided by a trusty band of three loyal pals, Irish cop Malone (Sean Connery), suave George Stone (Andy Garcia), and reliable Oscar Wallace (C.M Smith), Ness wages war on Capone and his gangland cronies. While other law enforcers pretend nothing is going on, Ness and his men swoop into action against the smugglers, bootleggers, and gunmen terrorising the city streets. Capone is not pleased - he turns his attention to stamping out these troublesome law enforcers who have put a dent in his lucrative criminal empire.<br /><br />Unsurprisingly, the acting here is high-class. Costner does what's required as Ness, but Connery and De Niro go a few steps further. Connery's experienced Irish cop is a wonderful role (indeed, the role which deservedly won the big Scot his only Oscar), while De Niro demonstrates how to portray evilness as only he can (his baseball bat slaying of an associate is shocking and disturbing in the extreme). Also memorable is Billy Drago as Capone's most psychopathic henchman Frank Nitti (not only does he get some powerful scenes; he also dies the most extraordinary death in the whole film). De Palma provides numerous flashy sequences, including a smuggling raid on the US-Canadian border, the rooftop skirmish between Ness and Nitti, and the afore-mentioned railway sequence. Ennio Morricone's music score is exciting and well-suited to the events on screen. There are occasional misjudgements, like Connery's ludicrously prolonged slaying (any more bullets and he's be a walking hunk of lead) and some slushy "family" interludes with Ness which are intended to show his loving, caring side but which only interfere with the proceedings. On the whole, though, The Untouchables is a fine movie which probably represents De Palma's best work of the '80s.