It's a fun action show, probably would have become a cross between Smallville, X-files and Baywatch. One of the problems with WB and UPN merging is that they are two totally different networks with a different feel for their audiences -- so I almost never watched UPN as they didn't know how to do action+fantasy+personal relationships made so popular with Buffy, Angel, Smallville and Supernatural. CW canceled the show, Aquaman aka Mercy Reef, WB had greenlighted. Luckily you can see the Aquaman pilot on iTunes and judge for yourself their decision to kill the show before it aired. <br /><br />The fantasy bits are Bermuda triangle, Atlantis and a guy who swims fast and sense that he may be able to communicate with underwater denizens. Oh, yeah and the secret navy group investigating strange phenomena. You've got potential complicated relationships -- a young cutie guy who hits on all the bikini babes he can, finds out he's a lost prince, becomes an unselfish do-gooder when he'd rather party while still wanting to solve the disappearance of his mother. Add in a stepfather with Lou Diamonds Philip in the role--played nicey nice a lot like Mr. Kent in Smallville. A girl next door type as his best friend, a woman naval pilot with a chip on her shoulder, and a big tough black guy who gives him a Shakespeare play as training for his destiny (Aquaman is Mr. Action, mind you, not a reader so he is not as appreciative of the gift as he really just wants to learn to kickass). And a really wicked mermaid--I mean siren. Add bikinis and shirtless hunks for eye candy. Only thing missing from the formula is a wicked manipulator like Dan in One Tree Hill but that would have come later. And a close male friend who is either another hunk, a techy geek or a funny sidekick. Script needs a little more work, though, as occasionally the lines sounded a little comic- booky. CW canceled Aquaman in favor of Runaway and Hidden Palms (they both sound more suitable for the over 40 crowd who watch CBS) which I think they will probably regret. It's a pity the new execs at CW don't understand that Aquaman appeals to WB fans aged 30 and under. It's a pity more episodes weren't made -- could've started a new trend -- a canceled show never airs but becomes a hit while viewed on itunes and then becomes a major motion picture. After all superheroes seem to do better at the box office than the small screen. Oh well. Have a good time watching the pilot as sadly that is likely to be all we will see of Aquaman.