William Powell and Myrna Loy! A pure recipe for alchemical gold, and nowhere better seen outside of the 'Thin Man' series than here. This is a better film than LOVE CRAZY which they made the following year. This is a truly hilarious film, with a wonderful script and first rate gag lines, with plenty of opportunities for laughing out loud. The story itself is, or at least seems, flimsy and nonsensical. William Powell was hit on the head nine years earlier and has had amnesia. Having previously been a con man, he has along with the amnesia experienced a total personality change. He has settled down and become a respectable citizen of Habsberg, Pennsylvania, where he is a pillar of the community, the head of the Boy Scouts, and a member of the Rotary Club, the Lions Club, and all those worthy bodies. He manages a pottery. He never touches alcohol, his hobby is taxidermy, and he even keeps a stuffed squirrel by his bedside which he stuffed himself. He is also pathologically mean with money and counts every penny obsessively. In other words, he has become a super-bore, and his attractive wife Myrna Loy can't stand being ignored anymore and has filed for divorce from this most disappointing, annoying, and unsexy husband. At this point he is hit on the head again and reverts to being his previous mischievous self, whom Loy had never known. This leads to all sorts of comedic escapades and because he now finds Myrna Loy irresistible, Powell sets about wooing her afresh as his new/old self (hence the title of the film). The strange thing is that there are documented cases in the annals of psychology of this sort of amnesia-associated personality change taking place, and also of the reverting back. It is rare and extreme condition, but it does happen. It is known as a dissociated fugue-state. (See my review of HOME AT SEVEN with Ralph Richardson where I discuss this psychological issue further.) The general public will just accept all this as 'a bit of hokum', not being aware that such things have actually happened from time to time. However, this is no time to be serious. This film is intended as pure fun. It works because of the magical sparkle between Powell and Loy, which chiefly owes its magic to Powell's remarkable and humorous personality and the unique response to it which seems to have emerged spontaneously from Myrna Loy from the moment they met. Theirs was a cinematic matching made in heaven. The two of them together really are so amazing that one ceases to pay any attention to what the film is about, and one just watches, mesmerized, as they interact with one another. They could be sitting and knitting or reciting the telephone book and it would barely matter. In this film, Myrna Loy finds 'the man she always thought was hidden inside' her husband and 'loves him again'. However, he then is hit on the head again. And I won't ruin anything by saying what happens next. One of my little hobbies is imitating the cooing of doves. I had not realized that William Powell was there before me, but then I must not reveal too much about what he is cooing about, as it might not make it past the Hays Office.