Rather mediocre fare from the much maligned independent producer/director Charles Band who probably tooled whatever resources were available just to fund the project. Had a very strange quality about it with the shrunken-headed millionaire, Virgil Travis(Jack Maturin, always carrying a scowl) his muscle and enforcer in clown-face, Mr. Mascaro(William Paul Burns) a disgruntled dwarf assistant, Hylas(..the great Phil Fondacaro) and the imprisoned girl rock band who were sent shock waves if they didn't play their instruments and belt out a selected tune at their master's command. The blood dolls are merely a modern take on the popular dolls made famous in The Puppetmaster. I didn't really care for them, at all..they are basically designed after modern urban street characters like a scummy pimp and muscle-freak with multiple piercings. We watch as Virgil punishes the two experts under his employ who failed to solve his financial woes, through a drill to the chest with the other shrunken into a doll!<br /><br />I liked the addition of the true villainous being Moira Yulin(Debra Mayer, seen mostly in lingerie or in a dominatrix outfit torturing her husband, who remains a subservient little puppy always obeying her, often receiving punishment if he angered her with his idiocy) who works behind the scenes using her inept husband, Harrison Yulin(Warren Draper) to gain power and money, her skill and cunning matching favorably against the pint-headed millionaire with revenge on his mind for being swindled by the three conspirators(..one her husband, told through an earpiece what he must say and do as she communicates from a different room) who worked together to bilk him of billions. Virgil uses his killer dolls, and Mascaro himself, to get bloody revenge against those that wronged him(..including Nicholas Worth, from the notorious slasher Don't Answer the Phone, as a pampered millionaire, whose mansion serves as a meeting place to talk with his alliances, including the underused Jodie Fisher as Mercy Shaw).<br /><br />I really enjoyed Burn's character the most, a morose, cold, pillar of strength, whose monotone, very serious voice never rose even as he watches his master's questionable acts towards others in violent ways. In fact Mascaro, a very faithful servant, was willing to do whatever it took to please his master. He's just such an unusual character..Band has the whole film played straight which gives the film an even odder quality. Dabra Mayer, whose resume proves that she's a sport often starring in horror schlock, is quite yummy in her scenes whipping and abusing Draper's wimpy husband. While I agree it doesn't touch Band's older films like Trancers, Subspecies, or The Puppetmaster, I'd have to admit that Blood Dolls ranks as one of his better endeavors, although it feels like the movie was made without a polished script, featuring themes the producer/director depends on entirely(..his resume shows that psychotic dolls are perhaps his favorite thematic element in killing folks)for any success. Not as gory as it should've been and the two endings were unnecessary(..either one would've been okay, but to feature two in the movie makes little sense).