I didn't know what to expect at first from this movie. I was at Sundance, and some friends of ours wanted to go see it so we came along too. When I did read the quick synopsis of the movie, my expectations dropped quite a bit. Thinking, "Great, another movie where the message is Left Wingers = Good, and Christians = Bad." Not that I'm either, but I hate it when people try to get their point across in such a black & white matter.<br /><br />But it ended up pleasantly surprising me. The movie focused mainly around 5 families. A few of them you may actually recognize from news coverage stories. Jake Reitan who was arrested along with his parents for starting a protest outside of Focus On The Family in Colorado Springs and for trying to read a letter that they wrote to Reverend Jim Dobson. Chrissy Gephardt, who is the openly gay daughter of Congressman Dick Gephardt. And Gene Robinson, who made international news by becoming the first openly gay bishop. The movie itself was incredibly moving. Not just due to the struggle of the homosexual person themself, but because of the struggle the entire family went through.<br /><br />All the families went through it very differently, but they all had the same common preconception: that homosexuality is a sin and abomination before the eyes of god. But yet they all still overcame their own prejudices, some longer than others, and it's very beautiful to watch. They also cover a number of other subjects throughout the movie such as the literalists' view of the bible, genetics, common misconceptions, and so much more. And still the film doesn't degrade Christianity in any way, and although I'm far from a Christian myself I found that to be very refreshing. In fact, for many of the families it seemed to help reaffirm their faith as well.<br /><br />It did turn out to be a very beautiful and poignant documentary. The director and two of the families, Jake's family and Chrissy's family, were at our screening and ended up giving the audience a Q&A session at the end of the movie which was very cool. And I got a chance to meet the director, Daniel Karslake, afterwards as well. Got to be one of the most genuine and down-to-earth guys I've ever met, and you could really tell how grateful he was of the audience's spirited response to it. I'm so glad I gave this film a chance.