This film opens with the on screen caption "on August 10th in a California Drive-In it all began..." A young couple are murdered while sitting in their car at a drive-in watching a film, by an unknown psycho with a large oriental sword. Two fat cops Mike and John (James Barnes and Micheal Alden) are put on the case, but unfortunately when it comes to solving the crime and capturing the killer these guys are about as useful as a chocolate fireguard. They interrogate a few people connected with the drive-in, Germy (Douglas Gudbye) the all round dogsbody, and Atkin Johnson (Newton Naushaus) the hilariously bad tempered and foul mouthed manager. This leads to a funny conversation between the two cops and Atkins, Atkins says teenagers are dicks and one of the cops replies "well, I have two of them" referring to the two dead kids from the opening sequence, the other cop quickly buts in and says "teenagers that is!", funny stuff and it doesn't end there. The cops helpfully observe "well, she's in pretty bad shape, she was murdered with a sword" and when they want to talk with Atkins again one says "lets go get that bald headed garbage can!" Anyway, they are baffled, the only lead they have is a man named Orville (Norman Sherlock) who hangs around the drive-in and spy's on people in their cars having sex, but when questioned by the two cops he claims he had nothing to do with the killings and he says "I just wanted to beat my meat!", hey that's what the guy said. All their leads come to dead ends. Will the two cops be able to unmask the killer in time, before more innocent lives are lost?<br /><br />Co-written, produced and directed by Stuart Segall this is just plain terrible. The acting is awful as is the photography and music. There are a couple of good gore scenes, a decapitation, a slit throat and an impaling, there just should have been more of them. But that's nowhere near a good enough reason to sit through this rubbish. The script by George 'Buck' Flowers and John F.Goff is slow, dull, boring and predictable. There's a scene where the two fat cops stakeout the drive-in, in disguise. One of them dresses in drag, he looks ridiculous and then they start to have a stupid conversation about where he's going to pee! There is also another scene where two victims are watching an unknown film in their car, the guy says "what a turkey!" and "this plots been done before", you will know exactly how he feels, I also wondered if his dialogue was included by the filmmakers as a little self referring joke, it sums up the film well. Half the film appears to be padding, there's a five minute sequence in which Germy walks around a funfair for absolutely no reason whatsoever, among other pointlessly drawn out scenes. The ending is also one of the worst ever, nothing is concluded. One to avoid. This does have a great tag line on the video cover though, 'You'll pay to get in...and pray to get out!!', that's true enough, you'll pray to get out alright, just way before this thing finishes.