This is one of the most amateurish films I have ever seen. While films like PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE, SWAMP WOMEN and THEY SAVED HITLER'S BRAIN are all notoriously bad films, I really think these movies and ones like it seem so polished and well-made compared to DRIVE-IN MASSACRE! Tor Johnson and Criswell are much better actors than the folks in this turkey! Yes, folks, it's that bad! <br /><br />The film begins with a couple being killed by a sword-wielding murderer at a local drive-in theater. It's pretty funny watching the guy getting his head chopped off, as the plastic head will make you chuckle. Logic isn't a problem in this film, as they just didn't bother with any at all. Think about it...three nights in a row people are butchered at the drive-in and yet they keep the place open AND people continue to fill the place every night!! Then, when the two least likely looking detectives get involved, you laugh even louder. That's because it seems as if there is no police force--just these two fat guys that look like brothers. You don't see a police station, other police or even a police car--just an old wreck of a car that barely runs! Talk about low budget! While these two guys are obviously NOT professional actors, they are better than most folks in the film. As for the manager of the drive-in, he's hilarious, as he is a completely one-note actor. All he seems to be able to do is scream and curse! And as for the rest, the loser who lives at the theater, the pervert who likes to watch couples making out, etc., a group from a small-town amateur theater group could have easily handled the acting much better. It's obvious that the film makers wanted to put anything on the screen and had no illusions about the quality of the picture.<br /><br />So why if this movie is so inept, so cheap and so stupid do I even give it a 2 and not a 1? Well, there were two things I did like. First, the scene of the cops undercover at the movie theater was awfully funny. Second, while the ending was stolen from William Castle's film THE TINGLER, it still was a good ending for this exploitation film--and ending this dreck on a positive note.<br /><br />FYI--There is a small amount of nudity and lots of cursing in this film. Parents should be aware of this before allowing the munchkins to watch DRIVE-IN MASSACRE--though with a title like this, I guess you aren't expecting a Disney film!