Do you like movies about questioning two losers? How about a couple of fatass cops sleepwalking their way through a film? What about endings that confirm the last 74 minutes of your life were totally wasted? Well then you'll love "Drive-In Massacre". Someone is murdering patrons of a Los Angeles drive-in with a sword. That's it. Yet this movie treats you to the minutiae of police work including extended questioning scenes of functional retard Germy and creep Orville who just wants to "beat his meat". Sound like a blast so far? Well hang on to your hats as Det. Mike and Det. John also talk to the world's biggest azzhole drive-in manager Austin Johnson who hates, and I mean HATES, everyone. The plot stumbles in circles like a drunk on a tilt-a-whirl with one meaningless scene after the other. This movie becomes fixated on the most mundane nonsense like a stupid argument between a philanderer and his girlfriend that wears a curly wig or questioning (again?) Germy at the "police station" with both the detectives desks next to each other like a couple of grade schoolers. Stu Segall hyper-focuses on these scenes like he's filming the return of Christ. Another major complaint is the various evening shots are so dark you might as well close your eyes and imagine whatever you want. I pretended that I was watching a better movie. Partially written by George "Buck" Flower who appears late in the movie as a machete wielding nut that bears no connection to the plot. He just sorta pops in to fill up running time like a carnival scene with Germy recollecting what the detectives have said to him. Woo hoo! Buck and John Goff (billed as Jake Barnes because he was probably embarrassed) worked together in Bill Rebane's "The Alpha Incident" which looks like "Raiders of the Lost Ark" compared to this crap. Mr. Flower even manages to cast his daughter Verkina in the crucial role of girl in warehouse somehow getting billing over Newton Naushaus who has far more screen time as the prick drive-in manager. This is the fiftieth and last movie in the "Chilling Classics" collection and boy did this thing end like it began. Appallingly awful waste of time.