The first and most important thing to say about DRIVE-IN MASSACRE is that it is, in fact, a very poorly done movie. People who are looking for quality cinema of any kind should avoid this, although I dare say it is hardly "the worst movie ever made," unless hyperbole is the only means by which you can communicate. The real question of this movie isn't whether it's bad or good; it is whether it's so bad, it's good. For those who like competent camera work, plot progression, and performance, this movie is not for you--make no mistake, DRIVE-IN MASSACRE is the bottom of the barrel (keeping in mind this is coming from someone who believes there is a level below the bottom).<br /><br />The other most important thing to say about this movie is that it is public domain. It can probably be found online for free, and it is available in a number of multi-movie boxed sets (including at least one of the sets with fifty movies). If you really, REALLY want to see it, it is available. As for whether or not you should see it, well...<br /><br />As the title suggests, this is a standard slasher film, originally made for screenings at drive-in theatres during the 1970's. And really, the goal for the drive-in audience wasn't really to be entertained by what was on the screen, but rather, to have what was shown on the screen assist patrons in getting into the pants of other patrons. For those gore hounds, there are some good bloody shots in this movie, and there's one bare-breast shot barely worth noting, but the shocks are cheap and will probably only coax the most squeamish of special ladies into the laps of their horny gentlemen.<br /><br />The plot revolves around, predictably, a series of slasher-style murders taking place at a local drive-in in Anytown, USA. The killer, in this case, is using a sword as his murder weapon, and there are, coincidentally, at least two characters in this movie who were, at one time, experts on sword use. At first, it seems like the killer only targets young couples who are prematurely pregnant. Our red herring, a standard in slasher flicks, is an amusing case as well--another killer, played by horror veteran George "Buck" Flower (he plays the mumbling old man in just about every horror flick out there) is found and shot down, only for the police to discover he's the wrong killer.<br /><br />So, for what its worth, DRIVE-IN MASSACRE does have an audience, just not a wide one. I found it amusing, and others will as well, but don't get your expectations too high for this one. I'd call it "So Bad, It's Kind of Good." Some of the dialogue, what can be heard, is rather amusing. The owner of the drive-in theatre, Austin Johnson (played by a man known only as Newton Naushaus), has some snide but humorous one-liners, especially while chiding the police.