Writing for Rogue Cinema has been a bit of an eye opener for me. I have to admit that, in the past, I've always watched movies and either enjoyed them, or didn't, without much thought to what went into the making of the movie itself. Well, in the past year or two, I've had my eyes opened as to the time and effort it takes to make even the smallest of movies and there's a movie out now that will help everyone to understand the independent film maker and what it takes to make a movie on your own, it's called Horror Business.<br /><br />Horror Business is a documentary that follows three filmmakers as they make their latest projects. The first Mark Borchardt is filming a movie called Scare Me, a horror story about an author battling evil. Horror Business follows Mark as he gets started writing and filming the movie and it's a great glimpse into the world of independent film, as Mark tells his mother that because she's given him money, she's a defacto executive producer on his film, and the behind the scenes footage of the filming is informative too, when the person who was supposed to run the camera doesn't show up, Mark calls on an extra who's run a camera before to do the filming for the night, explaining that the more experience you have in the film industry the more likely it is that you'll get to work if you find yourself on a movie set, which seems to be true!<br /><br />Next is Ron Atkins, a Las Vegas filmmaker who's filming his latest movie, Sins Of Government, a story that revolves around our government really being run by alien reptiles that have taken human form. Ron is a complete commando filmmaker, taking adversity in stride. His philosophy seems to be, just keep filming! Last, but not least, is David Stagnari, a New York film maker, who's film Catharsis seems to be the most 'artsy' of the lot, if that's indeed a word.<br /><br />The word of the day in all of the productions seen in Horror Business is 'work'. As an average moviegoer, you really don't get an idea of what goes into the making even a low budget movie. There are no dressing rooms, there are no divas, there's just a lot of people with a common vision who are working hard to get that vision on film, working twelve hours a day or more with little or no pay, these movies are truly labors of love and you really get to see that in Horror Business.<br /><br />If you've ever wondered about a person who would spend his time and hard earned money just to make a movie, or if you're one of those people whose currently saving their money with a vision in mind, Horror Business is for you. Chris Garetano's movie is a truly honest look at the independent film making process and the people behind and in front of the cameras. After seeing this, you'll never watch another low budget movie in the same way again, and that's a good thing. Horror Business is one of the best documentaries I've ever seen and whether you love horror movies or just movies in general, this will give you an idea of how much work can go into a movie and the love that film makers feel for their projects. It's called Horror Business and it's worth the time and effort you'll spend in finding it! Head on over to Horror Business Movie.com to get it today! And so, until next time when I'll tell you about my documentary, I'm going behind the scenes of a bakery, not because I think it'll be a good movie, just because I like the donuts, remember that the best movies are bad movies. <br /><br />Posted on Monday, May 01