Horror Business (2005) Director -Christopher P. Garetano Review by " Nightmare Child" Originally posted on Horror-Fanatics.com<br /><br />Our journey begins with a dream. Film makers are dreamers, and always will be. These are the first set of words that are uttered in Christopher Garetano's documentary Horror Business. As fans of the horror genre we often share the same dream. To be apart of that experience whether it's behind or in front of the camera. These movies had a strong affect on us as children and we grew up with it. We love it, we live it and we will do anything in our power to keep the genre alive. This documentary is a bold and daring look at the working world of low budget independent cinema. What drives a person to make their own movie? If you're interested in film making and the criticism behind a blood soaked genre, then Horror Business is a must watch for you. This documentary is gives in depth look at guerilla film-making. Featuring interviews with movie makers who dedicate their lives to entertaining themselves, and others.<br /><br />I am pleased to say that Horror Business is a must see. I've watched this documentary about 5 times prior to writing this review. Not all at once, but it just took me so long to come up with an idea for the review. Horror Business covers just about everything horror related. Everything from entertainment, marketing and actual down and dirty movie making. The documentary features interviews with many different film makers along with actors and other movie crew. While some of the credited cast are well known individuals, the rest run under the radar. Each person interviewed in Horror business share same love. We follow these independent directors as they explain why they make these pictures and why they continue working to do so. It wasn't apparent to me from the beginning but the more I watched Horror Business the more I began to realize why the poster says "movie making is NO WAY to spend a life". Some of the film makers shown in this documentary make these movies not just because they love doing it, but because they're stuck.<br /><br />They've invested so much time and money over the years that they just can't stop and take their life into another direction. This aspect of the film appealed to me most and I'm willing to bet that it's the key point to this documentary. The main drive isn't clear right away though. There are so many topics of discussion that you'll be left questioning what the reason behind this documentary is. I liked Horror Business a lot, I thought that it was a very well made picture. It took me a few tries to understand the point but I think I finally got it. The interviews are great, the music is good and the editing is fantastic. I love the horror genre very much and watching Horror Business was a huge realization as to why I'm so attached to it. It's like looking at yourself in the mirror and remembering the finer points of your childhood. Horror Business is the perfect title for this wonderful work of art.<br /><br />In this documentary Tony Timpone (editor of Fangoria magazine) mentioned that horror films are like therapy sessions. When you think about it, it's very true. I've heard this before from close friends of mine and I just so happen to agree one hundred percent. These movies bring something out of us that no other genre of film ever could. Fear can be fun, to be scared is like a going through a roller coaster. You get scared, but when it's all over you have a good laugh and want to go on again. Horror movies are just that like, they're fun to watch as long as they don't cross the line. I mentioned early on in this review that Horror Business pretty much covers everything that there is to know about the genre. One of the key discussions was about how far a movie could go. Are horror films dangerous? Can they go too far? These are just some of the many interesting questions that are presented in this documentary. Horror Business is a real in depth look at the reality of movie making. With all that said it's safe to say that this documentary should go into every horror collection. If you're into the idea of film making, acting or if you just love the genre, then Horror Business is a must see for you.