Paul (Griffin Dunne) has just started training a fellow worker on the computer system for their firm. The co-worker has trouble paying attention, for he confides to Paul that he is upwardly mobile and will soon leave the mundane word processing tasks to underlings. This gets Paul to thinking about his life...is it too blase for words? When he returns home to his boring apartment and starts to watch another boring show on the television, he snaps. It is getting late, about 10 o'clock, but he decides to head for the nearest coffee shop. It is there that he meets an interesting woman (Roseanna Arquette) when he observes that she is reading the novel called Tropic of Cancer. She gives Paul her phone number and leaves. Back at his digs, Paul makes the call and is startled to get an invitation from the lady to visit her apartment in Soho. Isn't it getting very late? Nevertheless, he hails a cab and begins the "after hours" journey of a lifetime. From candles, to books on burn victims, to ladies who like go-go boots and The Monkees, to skinheads, to burglars, to sculptors into bondage, and more, this is a nightmare of a night. Will Paul make it home alive? This film is a brilliant black comedy of errors. Dunne is superb as the man who just wanted a bit of excitement in his world, not a hair raising encounter with the underbelly of existence in the wee hours of the morning. The rest of the cast, including Arquette, Linda Fiorentino, Cheech and Chong, Teri Garr, and others, is also absolutely wonderful. The sets, costumes, and production amenities are fine, as is Scorsese's great direction. However, the script is the triumphant winner here, being intricate, ingenious, and very, very funny. The final scene of the film, involving a fall from a moving van, is awesome and side splittingly comic. If you have any objections to humor that is far from wholesome, you should probably bypass this movie, unfortunately. But, if you want to experience the thrill of exhilarating and gleeful film making, this movie should not be missed. After all is said and done, this film deserves to be on the list of the top fifty flicks of all time.