In 1852, in New Orleans, the southern Julie Marsden (Bette Davis) is an impulsive and spoiled young woman from the society of Louisiana. Her fiancée is the successful young banker Preston Dillard (Henry Fonda), who is climbing in his career with his dedication and work. When Preston stays in a meeting in the bank instead of with Julie, she wears a red dress against Preston will in a traditional ball where the upper class ladies white to get even, shocking the local society with her attitude. The mortified Preston calls their engagement off and moves to the branch of the bank in New York. When Preston returns to New Orleans one year later, Julie believes that he misses her and organizes a dinner party to welcome him and ask for his forgiveness. However, Preston is married with the New Yorker Amy (Margaret Lindsay) and the surprised Julie does not accept his marriage and decides to fight for him. The vindictive Julie uses the rivalry and hostility between North and South to make Amy uncomfortable and the situation provokes a fatal duel between her former boyfriend Buck Cantrell (George Brent) and his friend Ted (Richard Cromwell). Meanwhile Preston is contaminated in New Orleans by the Yellow Jack and Julie disputes with Amy the right to nurse him in an isolation island with lepers.<br /><br />"Jezebel" is another great movie of Bette Davis and William Wyler based on the southern lifestyle a couple of years before the American Civil War. Bette Davis character is a controlling, independent and spoiled young woman and when she finds out that her former fiancé is married, she tells her aunt that she would fight for him despite being married and her aunt compares Julie with Jezebel. The Biblical name Jezebel is the synonym of a promiscuous, wicked and manipulative woman. The story also focuses the outbreak that happened in 1853 in New Orleans, Louisiana, where thousands of residents died. The comparison with "Gone with the Wind" is inevitable since Julie Marsden and Scarlett O'Hara characters have many characteristics in common. Bette Davis deserved the Oscar of Best Actress in a Leading Role My vote is eight.<br /><br />Title (Brazil): "Jezebel"