I have often heard people claim that they could create a better movie than the one which they are watching, but I have never seen a movie actually validate such a claim. Sex and the Teenage Mind is presented as a serious attempt at a teen comedy, but appears more as a series of marijuana-inspired scenes brainstormed by people devoid of a sense of humor and completely out of touch with today's generation, which unfortunately happens to be their target audience. I truly think that the plot was made up as the movie progressed. It features many random scenes which not only detract from the movie's bare skeleton of a plot, but in addition coax the words, "was that supposed to be funny?" out of your mouth- already open in awe of how bad the movie is. During the movie I was actually amazed at how whoever was responsible for this piece of crap managed to make a cliché out of everything. The jock carries a football around for crying out loud, a character trait missing in Not Another Teen Movie, which intentionally overused such clichés. It really says something when a serious movie has more clichés than a parody on the same subject. Keeping in line with the theme of "last minute paper due the next day", profanity and nudity are placed into the film like similes in order to make it look more convincing that actual work was put into the project. They are put in such random context that it is glaringly obvious that their only purpose was to garner an "r" rating in a shallow attempt to appeal to teens. The only thing this movie succeeds in doing is boosting your self-esteem; not because of the nerdy characters, but because of the miserable effort put forth by the producers. One thing that really irritated me were the scenes which became awkwardly long for no apparent reason. Dialogue was repeated, the same points were emphasized, and I glanced at my watch a few more times. In one such scene we watch the main character drive to a girl's house for a good 45 seconds, as if we would be confused at how he got there if some of the driving was cut out. This becomes extremely frustrating when the first time is revealed to have been a dream sequence, and the scene is repeated. The main character is supposed to be a dork, but is portrayed to be so socially inept that it borders on mental retardation, and is so extreme that Napoleon Dynamite would point and laugh. The main character has difficulty walking without tripping, accidentally exposes himself to nearly every other character in the movie, and finds it necessary to practice putting a condom on a banana around his friend's waist while receiving direction, despite clearly labeled instructions provided with all condoms. Seriously though, good fun for the entire family... if your family has an average IQ of just under 14.