TRIUMPH OF THE SON OF HERCULES is a nearly totally forgettable Sword & Sandal film, even by the genre's standards. It's probably bottom of the barrel. Is it the worst? Maybe but there are some good things about it. I like the Egyptian statue where women are sacrificed. In fact, it's one of the most spectacular things I've seen in any Peplum. Unfortunately, the rest is totally below-par. I watched the copy on the WARRIORS pack and the transfer was really awful. It was basically in B&W, or sepia tone. It looked like a silent movie. In fact, as a silent movie, TRIUMPH OF THE SON OF HERCULES ends up being fun. The dialogue is bad enough so no one would miss it if one was to turn off the sound to make it look like a silent film.<br /><br />Though more physically fit than most actors playing these kind of roles, Kirk Morris is not an actor and this film proves it in spades. He does have some star quality but he's very stiff when it comes to acting. The story is tedious and the action is pretty much flat. The film's production values (aside from the statue) is really low-grade. Even the continuity is wretched. This film contains one of the biggest goofs I've ever seen in any film, and that includes Ed Wood movies. During the climax, Maciste enters a cave where a giant caveman lives. When he enters the cave, Maciste wears a specific piece of clothing (just a skirt really), which he basically wore throughout the film. But when he's deep into the cave, he's suddenly wearing a loincloth. After Maciste fights the giant and tries to save the girl from the altar, he's back to wearing the same thing he wore before. Really mind boggling stuff. Hard to believe no one noticed this major goof.<br /><br />TRIUMPH OF THE SON OF HERCULES is basically not worth watching. I'm certain a good film transfer wouldn't make any difference to its quality. In fact, they should re-edit it, give it a beautifully even sepia tone, remove the sound and sell it as a silent film. Seriously, it would actually be cool. <br /><br />Watch any other Kirk Morris film instead, like COLOSSUS AND THE HEADHUNTERS.