Tony Todd co-produced and appears for a third time as candy-man in Day Of The Dead as the scary man with the bad handshake. The movie was directed by Turi Meyer, but maybe it's supposed to be Russ Meyer; because, there's an abundance of female body parts exposed for no other reason then to ...well...be exposed I guess (reviewer blushes). Baywatch bubble-head Donna D'Errico stars as the great great granddaughter of candy-man. She's the daughter of Kelly Rowan's character from Farewell To The Flesh if that helps. The movie replays the same plot over from the first candy-man movie, minus any real horror or suspense, while D'Errico prances about in very tight clothes, panties, and tank tops made for infants. Her acting is at about the blow-up doll level, literally, as she inadvertently finds herself in close company with the candy-man (reviewer winks). Tony Todd spews "be my victim" so many times that I thought Meyer should have given him a sandwich board to wear to announce it. Maybe the writers could have given Todd more dialog then. The three films contain an escalating quantity of gore, which reaches its zenith in this movie; because, well...zeniths have to be reached. There are several of those red herring "boo" scenes again too. You know, it's the kind of scene where something or someone jumps into the scene (to say "boo" to the audience) when the director says "action", punctuated by excruciatingly loud cue music. Dum, dum dum dum (to borrow from Dragnet). Then we have a Lt. Detective Kraft, who is hell bent on putting the handcuffs on poor Donna; because, it looks like she's a murderess! To whom? Not the audience. For the next candy-man movie, I think the producer should lock all directors, writers, and film crews that want to make horror sequels in a room with a ceiling mirror, play the Sammy Davis Jr. tune "the candy man", and have all those present sing along. The direction is absent, the gore is gratuitous, and the script is laughable. They couldn't even afford to have Donna D'Errico wear a bra. 0 of 4 stars.