Donna D'Errico of Baywatch fame stars in this second sequel to the 1992 modern horror classic ‘Candyman' as Caroline, daughter of Annie Tarrant from the previous instalment. After unwittingly summoning the Candyman (Tony Todd) she finds herself embroiled in a cat and mouse game as the Candyman tries to make her join him by killing off those close to her so authorities are left to believe that Caroline is a sadistic killer.<br /><br />Unfortunately this is yet another case of third movie blues as ‘Candyman: Day of the Dead' soon becomes a virtually intolerable bore of a horror movie with little redeeming features. Abandoning all the interesting ideas from the previous instalment, writer and director Turi Meyer seemingly tacks on a ludicrous storyline to resurrect Danielle Robitaille aka the Candyman and in doing so turns the Candyman into nothing more than a typical slasher villain. While the previous instalment stayed somewhat true to the original this movie just turns the unnerving mythological presence of the Candyman into a joke. The first thirty minutes seem like nothing more than a cheesy soft-porn movie which is regrettably the best thing I can really say about this movie in terms of storyline. While the more brutal scenes which feature some good kills should satisfy gore fans those who want a little more to think about will be extremely disappointed especially considering this movie's roots.<br /><br />Donna D'Errico does her best to perform well in such an ineptly written and totally dull role and one does start to take some enjoyment from her performance even though it is only that of a B-Movie actress. The rest of the cast perform as well as you would expect from a group of B-Movie actors with the obvious exception of Tony Todd. Poor Tony is completely wasted here! In the previous instalments he had such an intimidating and foreboding presence whereas here, although he tries, it is impossible to take his character seriously and while he is certainly the most accomplished actor amongst the group his talents are wasted with a completely worthless script featuring some of the worst sustained dialogue it has been my displeasure to have ever heard. <br /><br />Those who are yet to see the original Candyman may find some enjoyment in the movie, despite his inept writing skills Turi Meyer's direction was generally fairly tight for such a farcical movie and one has to give him some credit in that department. If only the movie had not tried to continue from the first sequel with such a senseless premise and had decided whether it were a horror or a soft porn film then maybe something good could have been created. Unfortunately ‘Candyman: Day of the Dead' is a rather ghastly entry in the series and I'm sure will not fare well amongst fans of the original. My rating for ‘Candyman: Day of the Dead' – 4/10.