Since I'm a huge fan of comic books as well as "cartoony" or comic book based movies, I decided to review this one. When I saw this movie, one or two years ago, I was in my final year of high school, about the same age as the characters in this movie. I too have had a horrible experience in high school. However, I can't say I could relate to the dark world that is portrayed in Ghost World. I have read the comic book after watching the movie. Both of the versions of "Ghost World" portray a world full of sad and annoying people, pedophiles, typical idiotic high school students, and most of all, people faking individuality. <br /><br />I don't think "Ghost World" is meant to be realistic, but it's meant to portray this world that we live in. Enid and her friend are the main characters who think they are above everyone else, including the depressed guy that is Seymour. However, things don't turn out as they planned. I thought Enid and her friend were very realistic characters. They aren't shown as heroines who are greater than everyone else because of how different they are and how they don't let themselves controlled by society. On the contrary. This is a good point for the movie, since the realism isn't too overwhelming. However, the depressing atmosphere of the movie can be if you aren't into this. As the movie keeps going, it gets more and more depressing and the ending just leaves you with a "bitter taste in your mouth". <br /><br />It's not that "Ghost World" didn't move me. It did, greatly. But maybe the reason why I didn't like it as much as a lot of people did was because it mainly brought negative feelings to me. I really liked the story as well as the characters, but it was just too hard to stomach. There was very little optimism in the movie. It also seems to be telling the viewers that it's impossible to be an individual in this world, and that you'll always be just another [ insert a subculture or a name here ] to people, which I don't agree with personally.