This is the story of Enid (Tora Birch) and Rebecca (Scarlett Johansson) after they finish the high school. Both have problems to be related with people and they spend their time hanging around and bothering creeps. When they met Seymour (Steve Buscemi) who is a social outsider who loves to collect old vinyl records, the life of Enid will change forever.<br /><br />The screenplay of this memorable film was based on a comic book with the same name, created by Daniel Clowes. The plot is very simple but excellent and there are a lot of memorable dialogs and two memorable characters that makes this film as one of the most original films ever and that is, without a doubt, Terry Zwigoff's masterpiece. The way that the film start, when we can see how Enid and Rebecca spend their time, is really strange in consequence of the strange attitude of the characters . I mean when they follow the "satanic" couple is really bizarre but later they just forget about them in less than a minute and they stop in a restaurant, and it's even more bizarre. And there are lots of this kind of scenes that makes this characters truly memorable and the best thing is that they are believable. And the other main character, Seymour, is also great. The lines of all the characters are really great and the critic to the ignorant society too, specially the scene when a man is looking for the film "8 1/2" by Fellini and the video clerk give him the film "Nine 1/2 Weeks" with Mickey Rourke.<br /><br />Well, the cast is perfect; Tora Birch is amazing in the best character of the film, Scarlett Johansson is perfect in all the ways and Steve Buscemi is excellent like always in a memorable character. The rest of the cast is excellent too like the rest of the secondary characters like Josh (Brad Renfro) or Roberta Allsworth (Illeana Douglas). And the music is another perfect thing of this film just like in every other masterpiece like this one.<br /><br />Conclusion: i really love this film that is highly re-watchable and for me is one the best films of the 00's and amazingly original. I haven't read the comic book but Daniel Clowes, the creator, write the film too so i think is very similar to the comic book, that i'm going to get soon. So watch this film, is funny thanks to the great satire to the society but also is sad thanks to one character who doesn't know what to do with her life and is quite disappointed with the rest of the world. A ghost world. 10 out of 10