During the last days of World War II, as the soviets' bombs explode closer and closer as the days go by, the routine of concentration camp Awschwitz follows its course and represents the focus of this picture: the atmosphere of dread and death inhabiting the heavy air, the work inside the crematorium, the random executions of men, women and children,and the drama of the Jewish sonderkommando, a group formed by prisoners who, in exchange of better food and clothes, helped their tormentors in the systematic of death inside the camps, guiding the new arrived prisoners through the corridors that lead to the gas chambers, and the disposal of the bodies after wards, just to be killed some time latter. Let me just say this right from the get go: The Grey Zone is the finest, ultimate, grittiest portrayal of the Holocaust, in all its ugliness and horror. On the fact that The Grey Zone is highly underrated and little known is a complete mystery for me. Where Schindler's List bravely portrayed the dark events that went around in Germany, circa 1940's, it was built towards the light, towards an uplifting ending where hope prevails and courageous acts save the day. The Grey Zone, instead, offers no hope or alternative, nor uplifting ways, nor any of the characters show any noble redeeming actions towards their fellow inmates. Ultimately, it's about survival, and how we get our morals lost so easily when the instinct to stay alive kicks in. The Grey Zone's ugliness packs one hard punch - never in any other movie death was shown in such a realistic, brutal light. You actually fell you're inside the corridors of the crematorium, it's like you're trapped inside these tiny, claustrophobic gas chambers, it's like the putrid smell of the dead, yellow corpses piled up on the floor and the dread gets under your skin and stays there for days.Tim Blake Nelson was at the helm of The Grey Zone, and what a masterful filmmaker Mr. Nelson is...The sense of dread and dark tonalities of The Grey Zone put David Cronenberg to the shame. It should be regarded not as a movie, but as an experience.The script is tight and sober, reminded me of David Mamet in his most inspiring moments, regarding the dialogs and the exchanges between the characters. The photography and art department deserve praise: Awschwitz was worse than hell and people who visit these old concentration camps tend to say that after wards they fell this aura of pain and sadness. With Tim Blake Nelson's picture, although you're not physically there, The Grey Zone works as a tour through this place worse than hell. It is as creepy as the creepiest film can get, trust me.Performances here are all top notch and career defining. What really hurts is that The Grey Zone didn't get its deserved attention, because it poignantly proved what some movie stars are capable of, given the right material: David Arquette, an actor known for light comedies, is strikingly magnetic as the most fragile, mentally weakened sonderkommando, and his scenes are nothing short than harrowing and visceral. The moment when he is confronted by a newcomer prisoner about to be guided to the gas chamber is the stuff of cinematic history in terms of acting: as Arquette tells his lies ("you'll be guided to the bath and soon will be reunited with your family", and so on), this scared newcomer, realizing his fate, confronts him and says "It's a lie, I can't believe it's Jews doing this job!I'm going to die, but I'm going to live longer than you ever will, you're dead already!!", the desperate prisoner shouts at Arquette, and then Arquette loses his head and attacks this man to death, breaking his skull with punches and kicks, not really moved by angriness, but by sorrow and pain to recognize the awfulness of the truth spit on his face - yes, even him, Arquette, can't believe he is doing this, and the outlet of such sorrow comes into the forms of him losing his head and degrading and smashing a fellow Jew's skull to the death. Such a scary, harrowing movie moment... Mira Sorvino was a joy, and be prepared, you won't recognize her at first. The depths this wonderful actress went to create her character in a realistic light should be applauded. Mrs. Sorvino was highly commended for her work in Woody Allen's 1995 movie, but her performance in The Grey Zone rises above her other work, that's the picture Mrs. Sorvino should be recognized and awarded for.The other members of the cast have my respect, but I wanted to specifically point the performances of Sorvino and Arquette as the picture's true highlight in terms of acting. It was a crime that Lions Gate didn't work hard to promote this powerful material. The Grey Zone is a must see and a must have, a tour de force with performances for the ages and top notch cinematic achievements in every single department. A true ten, as exciting as films can get!!