Many critics have panned this film, and I think it's a sad fate for such a well done and thought-out movie. It doesn't rely on over-the-top special effects and overblown action scenes. Instead, this is a thinking man's superhero movie, focusing on the power of the characters to show what true heroes are.<br /><br />Captain America and the Red Skull are counterparts, both representing the pride of their countries, America and Germany, respectively, back in WW2. Both have been shot with a super-serum which transforms them into world-class athletes. They fight, Cap loses and is tied to a runaway rocket, which crashes into Alaska. He is preserved there until the 1990's, when he get resurrected and he realizes Red Skull is still alive and healthy, because the serum has allowed him to last this long. He is responsible for the deaths of several historic figures, including Robert Kennedy, John Kennedy, and Martin Luther King. And his next target is the newest U.S. president. Cap must stop him before it is too late, and at the same time, he must come to grips with the fact that he is in a strange new world and everything he has ever known in gone forever, and that if it hadn't been for him failing to defeat Skull the first time, many people would still be alive.<br /><br />The Red Skull, also, hates what he has become, and Captain America resurfacing represents a part of him he wishes was dead. He therefore takes all measures to make sure Cap is killed. The way they constantly pursue each other is both exciting and moving.<br /><br />As someone mentioned, this is a great deal like "Forever Young," especially the way Cap comes back to life and finds his girlfriend extremely old. And "Cap" is the better of the two movies. It has a government-conspiracy plot worthy of a Dean Koontz novel, and it also throws in a lot of comic-book silliness. The balance works, and combined with tremendous acting and a moving theme song, "Home of the Brave," I will proudly state that this is the best variation on a comic book super hero that has ever been put to the screen!