I had the privilege of viewing ARC, and the first thing that came to mind was that the trailer did not do this movie justice. When I originally saw the small clip, I knew it looked like a gripping film that I wanted to see. However, I was only a few minutes in to the feature when I suddenly realized that I was in for a real treat! Written and directed by the ingenious Robert Ethan Gunnerson, ARC takes place in the town of Los Angeles, and focuses in on it's more sordid side as a former police officer turned drug addict searches for a missing boy in hopes to redeem his character before his 30th birthday. Using a variety of color schemes throughout the film, Robert not only lures you in visually, but he uses the effects to add a depth to the film that I don't think could have been achieved otherwise.<br /><br />Now while the cinematography is what originally lured me in to the film, it was the character driven story lines and superb acting that kept me on the edge of my seat. I found it rather interesting that more than once, I felt like I was invading these character's lives. A sort of, fly on the wall, if you will. Robert Ethan Gunnerson did an amazing job of bringing his characters to life, and I look forward to his future projects. He definitely has a bright future ahead of him in the entertainment industry.<br /><br />Taking the starring role, Peter Facinelli (The Big Kahuna, Scorpion King, Fastlane) delivered a first rate performance the former police officer turned drug addict, Paris Pritchert. Called upon more than once to deliver a raw and emotion filled performance, Facinelli not only embraced his role with a passion, but executed it with flawless precision. It was truly one of his most memorable roles to date, and I think that only further opened my eyes to the still untapped talent he possess. He is truly a master of his craft.<br /><br />To all of those who have had the privilege of seeing the film, consider your self blessed. For those who have not yet had the pleasure, I can only hope that Robert will release this film to DVD or make it available for download on iTunes because in my opinion, it truly is a MUST SEE work of art.