Julia Roberts (Notting Hill, Runaway Bride) plays Grace Bichon, a working woman who works for her dad and keeps leaving her only daughter behind every place she goes. The casting by Marion Dougherty is brilliant. Mother/Julia Roberts; daughter /Brett Cullen; and sister/Kyra Sedgwick have the same speech pattern and same lips! There is something about their mouths that makes them really match. The cast is full of pros: Dennis Quaid (The League), Gena Rowlands (Hope Floats), and one of my favorites Robert Duvall (Wrestling Ernest Hemingway, The Apostle). He is of the top actors of the American Cinema, Oscar winner and many times nominated for all the prestigious awards available.Two treasures! Dennis Quaid and Robert Duvall. They can surely transform themselves! Eddie Bichon, played by Dennis Quaid, is cheating in his wife and she raises an uproar. She gets the entire family, friends and town are all involved, and Grace makes a point of going out of her way to spread the news of who is cheating and with whom. The movie gets funny as Grace takes vengeance at her own hands including giving Eddie a near death experience with her special chemistry in cooking helped by a special recipe from her Aunt. Kyra Sedwick (Singles, Phenomenon) has so many funny lines. She is my favorite character in this movie. Kyra Sedwick was nominated for Golden Globe for Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role in a Motion Picture for this part. I think that those supporting roles are really good and many times the actor can explore his or her craft more than the actor who has the lead. I have the tape and enjoy watching it. I love: the customs, the stable, horses, and equine competition atmosphere in the movie.<br /><br />My favorite line: "Sometimes a near death experience helps to keep things in perspective" Emma Rae is in bed almost falling asleep: Grace "Are you up?". Emma Rae: " Not technically!" My favorite Scene: Emma Rae kicking her brother -in -law after she helped him to come in the second floor of the house through the window. Nice looking movie! Good for the eyes! Full of fine lines!<br /><br />