A hit at the 2007 Sundance Film Festival, first time director Patricia Riggen's Under The Same Moon or La Misma Luna (in Spanish) is that rare film that's about real people dealing with life's issues that resonate in today's hectic and cruel world. The drama centers on a little Mexican boy, Carlitos (Adrian Alonso), who lives with his ailing guelita (grandmother) in Mexico; when she suddenly dies in her sleep, he sets off to Los Angeles to be reunited with his mother, who's been working as a maid for rich folks. His plan to make the journey across the US/Mexico border doesn't pan out as easily as he had planned, running into stumbling blocks that involve street thugs, migrant workers, a heroin addict, near kidnapping and the INS (Immigration and Naturalization Service). <br /><br />Under The Same moon is a fantastic little Mexican-American film that subtlety transcends the hot topic of illegal immigration. But it's the story of Carlitos and his mother Rosario (Kate del Castillo) that makes this film a definite must see. Child actor Adrian Alonso stands out and basically carries the film, as he gives such a compelling and truthful performance; it's one of those young performances of recent years that will be remembered. Kate del Castillo, as well, exudes that motherly instinct in her tired, stressed-out expressions with such sadness, one can only feel for her. Eugenio Derbez adds some comic flair as the stranger that ends up helping Carlitos to find his mother. At first, he wants nothing to do with him as he, too, is in the states illegally, but then becomes a father figure, realizing the chiquito needs all the help he can get. Ugly Betty's America Ferrera, in a brief role, is good as one who smuggles Mexicans into the U.S. in order to pay for her college tuition. No matter what you think about illegal immigration, Under The Same Moon is a terrific movie about hope, love, survival and the yearning for family, no matter what the consequences. It also pulls at your heartstrings. It's a powerful little film that will move you and perhaps, bring you to tears. <br /><br />Note: Under The Same Moon will most likely be playing in major Metropolitan cities, so if you can find it, I highly recommend this movie.