I get angry when younger people talk about the funniest movies of all-time and mention Adam Sandler and Will Ferrell movies because they have never seen an Allen picture. I understand the appeal of Sandler, but he is no Woody Allen. Their work pales in comparison to almost any Allen film. Woody Allen movies are uproariously funny..especially Play it Again Sam. The first time I saw it, I had checked it out from the local library and almost didn't return it, due to separation anxiety. I truly believe this is as good or better than Annie Hall, Sleeper, or Hannah and Her Sisters. What I like about it is that it's Woody at his most neurotic. He is recently separated and at his most insecure best. Fans of Casablanca will love it too. Not even Bogie can give Woody's character any romantic advice here. There are so many scenes that showcase Woody's comic genius. Simple stuff, but an absolute hoot nonetheless. The blow dryer scene, the scene in the art gallery with the young lady who comments on the Pollack picture and many other classically funny Allen scenes. My favorite scene is when he is in his apartment with Diane Keaton waiting for a blind date to arrive. He starts putting out books and Jr. High track medals to impress her and then when she arrives he can only grunt at her greeting. He then proceeds to fling his jacket across the room and knock over a lamp. He lets an album go flying as well. He has an incident with his turntable too! At the end of the scene he is leaning on a chair and it tips over. If you look closely, you can see that the other three actors in the scene can barely restrain themselves and stay in character. Allen is a nervous wreck and it is painful and hilarious at the same time. Woody allowed Herbert Ross to direct this movie and Ross did a fabulous job. His pacing and timing are perfect. The script is so sharp and witty. Tony Roberts and Diane Keaton are superb in the supporting performances. Plus, it was filmed in LA and has that LA feel about it. This movie is on my top ten list of funniest movies of all time. Nothing with Will Ferrell or Adam Sandler can crack my to ten. Woody Allen is a national treasure and this movie showcases why.