(Some Spoilers) Going through a painful divorce movie critic and Humphrey Bogart enthusiast Allen Felix, Woody Allen, spends almost all of his free time in a local revival theater watching old Humphrey Bogart movies. That's where we first see him almost hypnotized watching the final scene of the 1942 Bogart/Bergman classic Casablanca.<br /><br />Always on the short end of the stick when it came to having relationships with women the divorce to his wife Nancy, Susan Aspach, just about destroyed whatever confidence he had with the fairer sex. That left Allen so depressed that all he could think of is either killing himself or, in order to get his mind of women forever, become a eunuch in a Turkish Sultan's harem.<br /><br />Allen gets to talk his women problem's over with his best friend financial planner Dick Christe, Tony Roberts, and his pretty and somewhat shy wife Linda, Diane Keaton. The two trying to get Allen out of his almost suicidal state of mind set him up with a number of single women that they know at work. All their efforts always leads to disaster for the neurotic and depressed Allen who blows every opportunity to start up a relationship with the young women that he's set up with.<br /><br />The best advice that poor Allen gets is from non-other then what seems like the ghost of Humphrey Bogart, Jerry Lacy, himself. Bogart acts as Allen's alter-ego telling the shy and withdrawn young man that he has to get over his hang-ups and take the bull or woman by the horns. Letting her know that he's in charge and not act like some sniveling nebbish who's so unsure of himself that he has whatever woman he's out on a date with just walk out on him in disgust. Like a number of young women do in the movie, not caring at all if they hurt his feelings or not; that's just the kind of benign contempt women have for the poor slob.<br /><br />Bogart who no matter how he tries to get Allen on the right track with women just can't get the guy to break out of his insecurities. It's not until Allen is alone with Linda who's husband Dick is out of town on a business trip and then the sparks really start to fly. One of Woody Allen's best and most personal movies has the shy and introverted movie critic slowly overcome his inability to make it with the opposite sex with help of not only Humphrey Bogart but sweet and kind Linda Christe as well.<br /><br />Not expecting anything to happen the two alone in Allen's San Francisco apartment get so caught up with this uncontrollable passion that by the time the night was over Allen and Linda were in bed recovering from an evening that they'll both remember for the rest of their lives. Dick who suspects that his wife Linda had been having an affair while he was away on business goes into the same kind of depressed state of mind like his friend Allen. Dick later confides in him about the heartbreak he's having over Linda's infidelities and how by neglecting her in favor of his constant business pursuits may very well have had been responsible for them.<br /><br />It's both funny as well as sad when we see Dick and his best friend Allen talk over Dick's fears of losing his wife Linda and blaming himself for her leaving him by not paying any attention to her but being too involved in his job. It's also a bit strange and almost comical to hear Dick threaten to kill Linda's lover. Dick tells a befuddled and almost speechless Allen Felix that he had to lose Linda to some big stud. As much as he feels sympathy for his friend Dick's dilemma Allen is at the same time also in a way embarrassingly impressed, in he fact that Dick unknowingly thinks of him as being a big ladies man, by it. it was also strange that even though Dick knew that Allen was with Linda all the time he was away from her and that she even mentioned his name in her sleep Dick for the life of him couldn't put two and two together. Which showed just how little he thought of Allen as someone who can impress a woman, like Linda or anyone else, to leave him!<br /><br />The movie touchingly recreates the final scene in the film "Casablanca" with Allen Felix doing his best Humphrey Bogart imitation by having Linda leave him for her husband Dick whom she was going back to, if very reluctantly, anyway and forget about him with both her. It's then that Dick and Linda board the plane thats leaving for Cleveland and out of the now wiser and far more confidant, thanks to Humphrey Bogart, with women Allen Felix's life forever. As the movie ends Allen and Humphrey Bogart make a parting of the ways on the fog draped and almost empty tarmac. Allen knowing that he finally found the secret of what being a success, which is simply being himself, with women really is. Humphrey Bogart now knowing that he's no longer needed as Allen's guardian angel then goes back, by disappearing into the cold and foggy night, to Hollywood and movie heaven to the music of "As Time Goes By".