I base this review upon the five or so seasons that aired before this was cancelled, not on anything that may have come later, including the feature-length releases, which I have no intention of watching. It has been said about this that whether you love or hate sci-fi, you'll enjoy it, because you'll either get a kick out of the absolutely countless nods to, and parodies of, classics in the field, or laugh at all the jokes made at the genre's expense. This is immensely clever, and mostly intense in pacing, at times it gets to be excessive, and you won't be able to get everything. They tend to cram everything they can into the 22 minutes, and, honestly, nearly all of it is unbelievably funny. The episodes are usually hilarious, with a couple of exceptions, typically from them focusing on something or someone that just isn't strong enough to carry the main storyline on their own. There's satire, silly humor, social commentary and gross-out comedy. Some of the material was clearly put there merely to be controversial, to tick off the censors and/or otherwise provoke, and while there are points where you can definitely tell that PhD's wrote this, there certainly are also ones where it doesn't feel like that at all. This is almost always smart and well-done. There are a lot of references the 80's, as well as Star Trek, pretty much exclusively The Original Series. They took everything they learned when working on The Simpsons and applied it, though overall I do prefer that to this. Both have heart, in with the jokes. This was evidently very well planned out, and a lot of it has a genuine arc to it. It is imaginative and has a grand scope, cool creatures and intricate, interesting designs, if not all of the concepts hold up. The voice acting is just about invariably spot-on, and not only the regular cast. Every frame of animation of this is beyond reproach, and the masterfully done 3D is seamlessly integrated. The characters are well-thought out and memorable. Quite a bit of the dialog is quotable and excellent. The DVD extras on the volume sets are magnificent. I recommend this to any fan of Matt Groening creations. 8/10