The turmoil of post-war Vienna provides the backdrop for the story of "The Third Man" and some exquisite expressionistic cinematography is used to convey the sense of menace and pessimism which prevailed in the city at that time. The plot centres on two men and the way in which their longstanding friendship gradually unravels and finally comes to a fatal conclusion.<br /><br />Holly Martins (Joseph Cotton) is an American author who travels to Vienna to take up the offer of a job working with his old friend Harry Lime (Orson Welles). Soon after his arrival he learns that Lime has been killed in an accident and after attending his funeral, intends to return home as soon as possible. He changes his mind, however, when he is invited to speak to the members of a local book club. After a few people provide Martins with information about Lime's accident, he becomes intrigued by some apparent contradictions in their stories and seeks out Lime's girlfriend Anna (Alida Valli). A British military policeman, Major Calloway (Trevor Howard) encourages Martins to leave Vienna and provides him with convincing evidence of the odious nature of the racket in which Lime was involved. Shortly after this, Martins discovers that Lime is actually still alive and meets with him at a local amusement park. Lime invites Martins to join his racket but Martins refuses and later goes on to assist Calloway in capturing his old friend. As a result of this act of betrayal, Anna puts a permanent end to their friendship.<br /><br />"The Third Man" is an extremely stylish movie in which the sombre, claustrophobic atmosphere of its location is evoked perfectly by use of top class cinematography and a theme tune which fits its purpose far more effectively than any orchestral score could possibly have done. Add to this the great "I never knew the old Vienna" narration, Harry Lime's famous cuckoo clock speech and the drama of Martins' tale of optimism, disillusion, betrayal and loss and you end up with a real classic which continues to have an enduring appeal.