Unique variation on The Most Dangerous Game has quite the interesting twist..the prey is an attractive and NAKED stripper(..who becomes stuck in the position of dancing in front of bar slobs due to a run of bad luck). Reluctantly, she responds to the advice of a roommate, for a little extra cash, by getting in the car with a stranger she meets in her club, attempting to back out, but her choice of a pick-up was lousy..an expert hunter, who has graced the cover of magazines devoted to the sport, who likes to hunt down prostitutes on the side! When she attempts to escape from his jeep, he cold-cocks her, not long after, she finds herself in the middle of a wilderness buck naked. He, of course, is equipped with proper clothing attire, cross bow, and rifle. While, he has been successful as a predatory hunter(..he does have considerable advantages), this choice could be his undoing, for she's quite resourceful and strong.<br /><br />From the director of Sole Survivor and Night of the Comet, Thom Eberhart tackles to survivalist adventure genre and Naked Fear adds a certain spin never to be topped. Kudos should be heaped on Danielle De Luca who goes far beyond the call of duty, her character naked and bruised in the middle of New Mexico wilderness..certainly a breathtaking setting to have this naked girl running about. <br /><br />Not only does she deserve credit for baring everything for a large portion of the middle of the movie, but for her credible performance as a frightened victim who pushes herself to continue moving, despite her difficult circumstances. The role is incredibly demanding, and De Luca wasn't just some actress hired for how she looked in the buff. While spending a great deal of time, once her character awakens to find herself a quarry for the psychopath, running and hiding, trying to catch her breath at times, De Luca maintains our sympathy for her character's plight started from the very beginning and is established as a common occurrence in New Mexico..young, pretty girls snatched away from what they've known as a civilized world, flung into stripping and prostitution thanks to a series of events, call it fate if you wish, that landed them there. <br /><br />JD Garfield is Colin Mandel, the psychotic predator who is so hellbent on catching and killing Diana(De Luca), he even assassinates a father and his two boys whose presence he wouldn't allow to thwart his mission. Arron Shiver is Dwight Terry, a newly hired deputy, fleeing from a past that haunts him, who suspects Colin when he discovers that Diana is the latest girl missing, and evidence builds against him. Joe Mantegna adds some respectability to the movie as a cop, Tom Benike, who attempts to warn Dwight against going down the road of investigating his friend(..Tom and Colin are hunting buddies). <br /><br />Colin houses his victims' keepsakes in a tacklebox and we get a chance to witness his despicable antics as he pursues Diana, often bragging and grinning about his handiwork. He's such a loathsome scumbag, it doesn't take much to root for Diana to get the upper hand. <br /><br />The plot might ask a leap of faith from the viewer concerning the idea that Diana could actually overcome her dire / grim situation, gaining an eventual advantage, using cunning and whatever weapons she could get her hands on in order to fight back against her stalker, but that's all part of the fun. If you can make it through the opening act, which sets up the characters involved in the movie, it'll be worth the wait...I felt that the movie could've been trimmed a bit and still would've been effective. Admittedly, sometimes you become side-tracked ogling De Luca's body(..or, at least, I did) despite her harrowing ordeal, the action sequences and exhilarating location are assets that accompany the eye candy.