'Naked Fear' opens with a terrified naked woman being stalked and killed by a faceless hunter. The premise of hunters stalking and killing humans is of course nothing new, from 'The Most Dangerous Game' to the 'Predator' movies, but rarely has the idea been done as well with a low budget. Danielle De Luca stars as Diana, a naive young woman who ends up working in a seedy strip joint in a town where game hunting is an obsession and women seem to be disappearing at an alarming rate. However as they are all drifters, strippers or prostitutes, nobody cares except a newly posted cop Dwight (Arron Shiver). After a night at work, Diana wakes up naked in the wilderness with an armed killer on her trail. 'Naked Fear' could have at this point simply turned into a boring exploitationer with the main purpose for the camera to linger on De Lucas' nude body as she runs from her nemesis, but instead director Thom Eberhardt crafts a suspenseful and enthralling movie. De Luca is naked for a long section of the movie, but the director shoots the movie in a way that it's clear the fate of Diana is what is important, not her nudity. Eberhardt also underplays the gore as he never shows any of the torture the hunter inflicts on Diana before letting her loose in the wild. I found this refreshing after watching Eli Roth delighting in the torture of women in the risible 'Hostel II' & Danielle De Luca is very good in a demanding physical role which must have taken a lot of bravery to do. As the story unfolds 'Naked Fear' stays believable,as Diana does not suddenly develop kick boxing skills or make elaborate traps like Rambo. Also, the actions of the local townspeople from Dwight to Diana's flatmate Rita (Lisa Hill) never seem unrealistic (though the ending did seem a little out of place after everything which had gone before it). <br /><br />The underlying message of the movie is that Diana, Rita and the other strippers and prostitutes to many of the townspeople are as worthless as the deer the locals kill for fun. Don't be put off by the nudity as the worst thing about 'Naked Fear' is its rather lurid title.<br /><br />If you find the idea of a killer hunting naked women as game preposterous, this movie is amazingly based on real life killer Robert Hansen. In the late 1970's Hansen kidnapped female dancers and prostitutes before stripping them naked and hunting them down in Alaska. He killed 15 women before he was caught.