In the movie "Wide Awake," M. Night Shyamalan presents us with a real boy who is dealing with a real problem: Now that my grandfather is dead, what CAN I believe in? Joshua Beal, played by Joseph Cross, narrates as he goes on a quest for answers, and the one person who can provide those answers, God. Neither preachy, nor condescending, Mr. Shyamalan guides this film through to a resolution that is more surprising in how deftly it's handled than in how well it resolves the questions raised. In the end the answer waits for Joshua to be ready.<br /><br />I had only heard of Mr. Shyamalan's "Praying With Anger," when I saw this movie, nor did I realize that he was also the director of "The Sixth Sense," which was in theaters when I saw this on pay-TV. Initially I started watching because of Dana Delany (China Beach, Last Exit To Eden), who is not just easy on the eyes, but whose past performances put her on my "watch her stuff" list. Dennis Leary (The Ref) was another draw. But, it was the screenplay and directing which locked me on my couch for the rest of the movie. And when I sprang this movie on my family for Christmas, with no introduction, and no other information other than, "You're going to like this movie," words which no doubt only made the prospect of watching this film only slightly more desirable than being boiled in plum pudding, they balked, objected, and complained for about two minutes. Within five minutes the room was quiet. By the time Joshua tries out for the football team, everyone was charmed and delighted.<br /><br />I believe the magic is that Mr. Shyamalan understands that there really is no such thing as a "children's" story. I had a similar trauma by the time I was in the sixth grade, and there were no "wise-cracking" kids, "wacky next door neighbors," nor any talking dogs there to help. Just people, normal mortal, fallible people doing what they can with what they have. Mr. Shyamalan seems to understand what it means to be on this quest. He seems to realize, we are, all of us, on the same quest.