-an engaged woman gets a visit from a boy claiming to the reincarnation of her dead husband from years ago. At first she is very skeptical like every normal human being would be about a silly claim like that but after the boy begins to mention some things that only the real husband of the woman would know she begins to believe him and fall in love with him which causes problems for everyone around her <br /><br />-the first time I saw this I really hated it. I think if I had written a review for it back then I would have given the movie a 1 mostly because of the horrific ending that makes no sense what so ever. but I think after you watch the movie again expecting the crappy ending you really begin to see the movie as what it is which is a look at how one little event can destroy someone's life if they're not careful. When we first meet Kidman's character she is a seemingly happy women that has put the past behind her and is enjoying her life for the most part, but once the boy comes into her life we see how it begins to affect her and how a rational woman can go insane. You'd think someone like her would never fall what's being fed to her but she actually believes it which causes problems for her whether how it dissolves the relationship with her fiancée or how it affects her family. It's really nice to watch as her world comes tumbling down but yet she doesn't realize it because she's so in love and believes that the boy is her dead husband. If the movie had kept this going and had an amazing ending then I think the movie would become something wonderful but some reason the writer just seems to have run out of ideas and just gave us an ending that should make people want to throw things at the screen.<br /><br />-I'm not a fan of Opera since it's bores me to tears but those who do will love the soundtrack on this movie which uses various opera cues that I've never heard and don't really care about. Kidman would be great in the movie if she was capable of expressing more than just one emotion in the movie. throughout the movie she looks tired and bored and we rarely get to see her smile which is appropriate for her character because her world does get turned upside down. Just wish she'd smile more. The ten year old boy that's the source of everyone's misery is played by Cameron Bright who can be seen in the new X-Men movie as "the cure" of the mutant gene. He like Kidman is somber throughout the movie and I don't think we ever get to see him smile even once in the whole movie. he is very creepy looking and scared me quite a bit so I guess he did a great job.<br /><br />-with a better ending it may have been a masterpiece but as it stands it's a really good movie that shows how fragile we really are and how one lie can change the course of your life