This is actually a great direct to video Comedy, that really surprised me by how enjoyable and funny it was, with fun performances!. All the characters are cool, and the story is pretty good as well, plus Jerry O'Connell plays a great funny lead!. For me though Ryan Reynolds stole a lot of the scenes, as he is absolutely hilarious, and it has some great eye candy in Bridgette Wilson and Alyssa Milano, but they also give good performances, plus it's very well made and written. One of the funniest parts in the movie for me is when Ryan Reynolds announces at a wedding that he is a raging homosexual, and also when he thinks he has slept with a man, plus it's good natured as well. All the characters are extremely likable, and this reminded me somewhat of Tomcats, only better and funnier, plus it kept me guessing throughout, as I was actually expecting it to be predictable. I'm not usually a fan of Direct to video Comedies, but this one is an exception, and I really liked the ending too, plus the whole cast seemed to be enjoying themselves. This is actually a great direct to video Comedy, that really surprised me by how enjoyable and funny it was, with fun performances, I highly recommend this one!. The Direction is great!. Walt Becker does a great! job here, with very good camera work, and just keeping the film funny and at a very fast pace. The Acting is fun!. Jerry O'Connell is very funny here as the main lead, he has lots of charisma, is very likable, offered plenty of laughs, had a cool character, and really seemed to be enjoying himself, it's too bad we don't see him as often anymore, because I really dig this guy! (Jerry Rules!!). Bridgette Wilson is incredibly gorgeous, and does very well with what she had to do, she had a likable character, and did her job well. Ryan Reynolds is absolutely hilarious here, every time he was on screen he managed to crack me up, he had a very cocky&arrogant character, but I couldn't help but love him, he stole a lot of the scenes! (Ryan Rules!!!!). Bill Bellamy is good as Jonesy I dug him. Alyssa Milano is very gorgeous, and has a sexy part, it's just she didn't have much screen time. Ron Livingston does good with what he had to do, I liked him. Erinn Bartlett and Scarlett Chorvat are hot as the Madison sisters, and played there roles fairly well. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall I highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5