Having recently found this at a local DVD store I was sufficiently intrigued enough to buy it. Having finally sat down to watch this film early this morning I was rather surprised by this little UK propaganda film. Unlike many of its counterparts (either American or Birtish that I've seen anyway) this film went beyond simple propaganda needs and became an intriguing thriller in its own right.<br /><br />The film's cast helps to sell much of the story. From Basil Sydney and David Farrar as the officers leading the attack to Leslie Banks as their ally in the village to the young Harry Fowler along with Valerie Taylor, Frank Lawton and Muriel George amongst others the cast all seem perfectly natural in their roles. All in all the result is that it's a fine cast telling a fine story.<br /><br />The main selling point of this film though is the story. Years before Jack Higgins would turn the concept into his bestseller (and later still a fine film) called The Eagle Has Landed writers John Dighton, Angus MacPhail and Diana Morgan would take a short story by famed writer Graham Greene (The Third Man, Our Man In Hanvana etc.) and create a fascinating tale. From the moment Mervyn Johns gives his introduction to his epilogue for the story the audience is aware that this is a World War II propaganda film without any doubt. Yet it soon becomes apparent that this is far more then that. The story soon becomes a tale of deception, double crosses and the power of the ordinary person in a time of war. While the film's propaganda message will be lost on many modern viewers, the story is a compelling one to be sure.<br /><br />The production value's are handsome as well. Tom Morahan designs make for a highly convincing English village which one imagines couldn't have been easily built during wartime. Famed composer William Walton (soon the become famous for his work on the Olivier Shakespere films) provided a fine score, especially at the opening and closing of the film. yet the highlight of the production side of the film is the wonderful cinematography by Wilkie Cooper. Cooper's cinematography, from sunny summer days to the moodiness of a night of desperate attempts, perfectly fits each moment and situation.<br /><br />The film isn't perfect of course. While the story is intriguing in itself, there is something of a mistake made by having the opening and closing done by actor Mervyn Johns. While they serve a fine purpose as propaganda pieces (and of course bookends) the opening gives away quite a bit very early on which dampens the surprise that comes as the film progresses. There's also the staging of the battle sequences that, like many films of this era, seems rather dated today with all its hollering and men falling over. These are relatively minor problems though when compared with the rest of the film.<br /><br />With an intriguing story, nice performances and handsome production values Went The Day Well? is an intriguing film. While at times an obvious piece of World War II propaganda as a thriller it stands up quite well nearly seven decades on from when it was made. With its timeless tale of the power of the ordinary person it is a film that speaks even now.