There are a lot of things that astonish and disappoint me in this world...but this ridiculous piece of garbage film getting a 5.9 rating on the back of a LOT of perfect ratings is one of the most disappointing and disturbing of all. In fact, I dare say when I was leaving the theater, the only crime I felt had taken place was fraud! The cast is essentially the same...two girls (one brunette and one blonde) and two boys (one brunette and one blonde) are substituted for the "original" two girls and two boys with the same hair color and the same general appearance. Insert a couple of bikers, some inane "facts" about how "Hoyt" became sheriff, "Leatherface" was born and raised, and so on...and what you have is the original remake remade with a B class feel.<br /><br />The contradictions in this are appalling. For instance, Leatherface is one bad mutha...he's huge, he's powerful (lifts one guy up off the ground, impaled on a chainsaw), and he causes the ground to shake when he walks. Yet he hides in a car, he can't be seen by a passing vehicle, and his stealth like nature allows for a very stupid and very gory finale that perhaps gives this wretched fraud the only genuine feeling of originality it deserves. Its original in this...but its also very, VERY stupid! This movie is throughly pointless. Hoyt wasn't the actual sheriff...well there's a shocker. Gee, could a man in a dead town be pretending to be a sheriff? Or that Leatherface had birth defects? Or that his mother gave birth to him on the floor of the slaughterhouse as she was dying (yeah, this was one grotesque scene...I can't even imagine someone being proud of producing that scene...let alone choosing to keep it in the movie), and he found a home away from home in the confines of the slaughter house? I'm of course off on a tangent here...but literally there is NOTHING in this movie...nothing at all. Simply put, this is a rehashing of the remade TCM, repackaged as a beginning chapter that simply was not needed. If you want to see Leatherface, do yourself a favor and watch the DVD of the remake- it makes more sense than paying money to go to the theater and watch the same movie for an inflated price!