Ever notice how many people just mimic somebody else? It seems to be one of the leading characteristics of human beings, who often act like glorified chimps. When one person claims the little boy in the film "has no personality," several others must chime in with exactly the same sentiment. The kid was supposed to be fully cognizant of his past adult incarnation, and as such, he acted more like an adult than a child, hence his apparent lack of "personality." In fact, he handed in one of the most convincing performances I've seen from a child actor in a very long while, because 99% of the time, the children of celebrities are precocious, annoying and predictable. Thankfully, the filmmakers made a thoughtful selection and didn't pick one of them to fill this rather demanding role. The milkshake scene was jaw-dropping and the bathtub sequence truly awkward and discomfiting, but they were done believably. No wonder this flick didn't get much publicity. Child welfare advocates would have been defecating in their shorts.<br /><br />What was intriguing about the story is that the kid successfully wooed this woman away from her fiancée despite all the odds stacked against him, but given a twist in the plot, suddenly claimed he couldn't be who he thought he was and walked away from the whole situation. This odd and confusing movie, nonetheless, had some interesting elements and was photographed quite well. The long closeups, in particular, were especially effective. What a luxury it must be to use up so much expensive film on subtle changes in an actor's expression. The Wagnerian score was good, too. Nicolle Kidman has been involved in several interesting projects to date. There was "Dead Calm," "To Die For," "Cold Mountain," "Eyes Wide Shut," and now this. How old is she? She looks just as good as she did many years ago. Liked that short haircut, Nicolle. It's one thing to be gorgeous at 22, when most women are at their most alluring, but for a beautiful woman to age so gracefully is rare.