Taken from i can smell your brains .com I Can Smell Your Brains Cinema returned last weekend with a movie that will blow your mind: God Has A Rap Sheet. Generally we feature horror or Sci-Fi films at our film showings, but in the case of God Has A Rap Sheet – the movie is so good we decided to bend the rules.<br /><br />God - a hell of a guy! Imagine taking eight totally different guys and locking them all up in a holding cell in a New York City jail over night. When I say different I am referring to each of them coming from completely opposite ethnic backgrounds. Combine a working class Muslin, a Hasidic Jew, your typical Italian Mob related underling, an insane Irish Skinhead, a Black aspiring hip hop wannabe, a Puerto Rican hustler, a cheery fella from Great Britain, and an Asian record industry executive together in the slammer and your bound to have some schism. Well, this recipe gets even more out of hand when a bum who was already incarcerated and inhabiting the cell claims to be God……….<br /><br />The nights about to change! John Ford Noonan, the most degenerate looking guy on the planet, totally steals the show when he breaks the news to everyone that he is God. Noonan hasn't had a big career as an actor which is a shame; because when you see him in this you will be thoroughly impressed. I instantly recognized him from his role as "Handsome John Pruitt" the truck driver from Adventures in Babysitting. He is also the brother of actor Tom Noonan (You might remember him best as Ripper from The Last Action Hero), does an amazing job as a crazy old man that just might be God. Sure he stinks, his pajama pants are soiled, and he is missing a few of his front teeth, but who is to say what sort of human God finds interesting enough to inhabit. The guys in the cell begin to bump heads with their opinions on sex, religion, race, and creed. Of course fancy to meet you here!when things begin to heat up God tries to lend some advice and kind heartfelt solutions to their problems, which are obviously laughed off right away.<br /><br />Similar to the style of Reservoir Dogs and Clerks, where the majority of the film is based on clever dialogs, the film also has that similar feel being generally filmed all in one location. But God has a Rap Sheet is an underground and much overlooked classic. Written and directed Kamal Ahmed of The Jerky Boys, the film is innovative and a fresh outlook on racial profiling as well as your average American's unfortunate typical stereotyping. But don't let Kamal's resume of the Jerky Boys fool you; though this is just Nice gun!as creative as any of his spontaneous phone calls, God has a Rap Sheet is not a slapstick comedy. Sure it has it's elements of humor, but it's the sort of film that may leave you questioning some of your own beliefs.<br /><br />The end has an awesome surprise guest show up who is none other than the legendary William Smith. He is one of America's last tough guy actors with his past roles in classics such as Any Which Way But Loose, Red Dawn, and Conan's father in Conan The Barbarian.<br /><br />I really enjoyed this movie and that's why we decided to show God Has A Rap Sheet this month instead of our typical horror themed film. This is my way of saying, "Wow,you all need to see this!" But instead of showing it to everyone that comes over the house, I wanted to do it on the big screen.