From the haunting opening to the heartbreaking ending... this film is an absolute masterpiece. Everything from the acting to the cinematography is stunning. It is extremely unfortunate that more attention was focused on the now infamous bath scene between Kidman and Cameron Bright. The scene is uncomfortable, no-doubt, but it is supposed to be. At no point is Anna (Nicole Kidman) completely relaxed in the company of this child who claims to be the reincarnation of her dead husband. The inclusion of this scene and the later 'kiss' scene simply add to this feeling of confusion and raw emotion that Anna is experiencing. What better way to tap into viewer emotions than to have a 10-year-old tenderly kiss a grown woman - it's an idea that is guaranteed to evoke strong feelings! The fact that we do not dismiss the reincarnation idea as completely ludicrous owes much to the fantastic acting - not just by Kidman but by the supporting cast also. Lauren Bacall is truly wonderful as Kidman's sarcastic mother. Kidman & Bacall are a fantastic double act, with their performances bouncing off each others perfectly. Both Kidman and Bacall have said that they feel like mother and daughter off-screen, which is evident in this movie. At times, you feel like a fly-on-the-wall watching a supporting but disbelieving mother trying to help her heartbroken daughter. This adds yet more to the personal, emotional tone of the picture. Anne Heche gives her best performance in years as the friend-with-a-secret. Cameron Bright is a real talent and is even more impressive when you realize how little dialogue he actually has. Through facial expressions and actions he acts jealousy, pain, hatred and love wonderfully well for such a youngster. However, it is Kidman who yet again shows that she is one of the best actors of our generation. She is along side Meryl Streep as someone who astounds us time and time again... If ever one scene could represent her astonishing talent, it is the 'Opera-scene'. The camera stays on Kidman's face for nearly a minute - in this minute, every emotion Anna is feeling is expressed through Kidman's face. It is stunning and, if any scene should have overshadowed this incredible movie, it should have been this one! Kidman is astoundingly good - the final scene is truly one of the most heartbreaking scenes I have ever sat through. The ending I mentioned doesn't explain everything to us - how Anna ends up is left to our own imagination. This is by far the most moving, though-provoking, superbly acted movie of the year. Anyone who gets the chance should see it and if the Academy (Oscars) ignore this - they really are as arrogant, small-minded and stupid as they seem!