Pretty accurate account of the both greatly admired and violently despised, depending on which side of the fence your sitting on, legendary Cuban, even though he's from Argentina, revolutionary leader Commandante Ernesto Che Guevara, Benicio Del Toro.<br /><br />The film "Che" starts with Che Guevera on the verge of addressing the UN on the afternoon of December 11, 1964 in his first official trip to the USA as a Representative of the Cuban Government. We see Che being interviewed by CBS TV reporter Lisa Howard, Julia Ormond, about how he and his good friend and now Cuban Premier Fidel Castro, Demian Bichir, were able to pull off the impossible! In them taking over Cuba against overwhelming odds in just two short and bitter years of bloody hit and run guerrilla fighting. The movie switches from high contrast and newsreel-like black and white to vivid color as were shown the circumstances that lead Che, as well as Fidel, to the exalted positions that they now occupy.<br /><br />It wasn't an easy climb to the top that's for sure as we see Che together with Fidel Castro and about 80 Cuban Revolutionaries hit the beaches of South-Western Cuba, on the morning of December 2 1956, from their rusty dinky and leaking boat "The Gramna". Before they know it Castro's men were ambushed by Bitista's-the then Cuban Dictator-soldiers with only about a dozen, including Che & Fidel, surviving the carnage. Short of men arms and ammunition the Cuban Revolutionaries, calling themselves "The July 26th Movement", in a series of hit and run attacks, brilliantly planned and executed by Che, against the Cuban Government troops establish a foothold in the impassable Sierra Maestra Mountains. It's in the Sierra Maestra's where the revolutionaries gain in strength by recruiting the local peasants, who have no use for Bitista, into their now swelling ranks. <br /><br />It's now the late fall of 1958 and Che-now Fidel Castro's right-hand man-despite his acute asthmatic condition, he's always falling behind and passing out during the fighting because of it, ends up leading his men to victory in the final stages of the Cuban Revolution. Bitista and his cronies in the government army and Cuban police seeing that the end is near, with them facing long prison terms or the firing squad, flee the country just before New Year's Eve 1959. It's between these flashbacks that we get to see what is considered by many to be Che Guevara's finest moment! Standing at the podium of the UN that just hours before was almost hit by a bazooka shell, that landed harmlessly in the East River, fired by anti-Castro Cubans Che laid out the principles behind the Cuban Revolution that he was so proud to be part of. Like it or not Che's flamboyant and no holds barred, in his dedication to foment revolution all across the South American Continent, even had his most bitter critics, among the UN delegates, stand up and cheer!<br /><br />The movie "Che" tries to be neutral in what it wants us to think of Che but comes across a bit disingenuous in overlooking, or air brushing out, most of the serious accusations of lynch mob-like show trials and summery executions, of members and supporters of the now ousted Bitista Regime, by Castro & Che's out of control guerrilla army that-in early 1959-were floating around at the time! The film "Che" stopped short or ended just as, which they were comically known back in those days, the "Smith Brothers" Castro & Che took power as well as revenge against their defeated enemies. It's then that Castro Che & Co. showed their true colors, Deep Commie Red, in what they planned for the Cuban people that they just "liberated". A Soviet style dictatorship that was just as repressive and brutal as the one that they just replaced!