I haven't seen many films since 2009 came, three visits to the movie theater before the one to see Che Part One (The Argentine) and of that three visits I had not really entirely pleasant experiences since Bedtime Stories is simply a bad movie, RocknRolla is just OK and The Curious Case of Benjamin Button was not bad at all yet was not my cup of tea (certainly to read my entire opinion of those movies you can check my comments!). Fourth visit, Che, simply a great film that I loved. I don't really know when will be released in my city Che Part Two (Guerrilla), I hope it will in theaters next Friday and if so I will, certainly, be there. <br /><br />Mainly two facets, Benicio del Toro did simply a remarkable work, we see Ernesto Guevara in Mexico and certainly Fidel Castro, chronologically that is the first part of the film, the beginning in Mexico City. The film begins and we move from one place to another, we will keep seeing NY while we see the revolutionary road. <br /><br />A marvelous entertaining picture in the battlefield, in Cuba, we see Che in the battlefield of the revolution, how he was, the medic, a revolutionary not only have to fight, Guevara as the leader, as the fighter. Certainly we see how Che was, many people wanted to join him, the ones who knew how to read and how to write came first, the other ones while not in combat must learn. We follow this period, the way of the revolutionaries, the moves of Fidel Castro and all certainly will take us to Santa Clara but we had memorable parts. A fine example is when two brothers of only 16 and 14 wanted to join the revolutionaries, they were with some other people that certainly also wanted to fight and the brothers were the only ones who knew how to read and write, they will stay and we will see how when all of the revolutionaries had the last chance to stop fighting they will not leave Che and they will have the option to leave the fight but certainly with their honor intact. And talking about memorable parts the very last scene is marvelous since it resumes how Che was. Che will be in La Habana for the very first time. <br /><br />So The Argentine was just my introduction to the work of Steven Soderbergh, yes I haven't seen sex, lies, and videotape (yet) and Traffic. Here the first very positive fact for me was that the film is in Spanish, in short it is a piece of work and I can't wait to see more Soderbergh starting with Che Part Two! Hasta la Victoria Siempre!