Two years after their success with Django, director Sergio Corbucci and lead actor Franco Nero teamed up again for this western which, to the best of my knowledge (and surprise) was never released with an alternate title including the word 'Django'. Rather than focusing on a coffin-towing gunslinger, this one features a story taking place around the time of the Mexican revolution. The film gets off to a good start with a great score conducted by Ennio Morricone. From there we are introduced to Franco Nero's character Sergei Kowalski; a Polish gunslinger, only out to better himself; and, it has to be said, is a little hard to understand at first. He hooks up with a Mexican revolutionary named Paco, and together they strike a bargain; The Pole will aide Paco in his revolution, for a slice of any profits that the pair and their army 'liberate' from the Mexican towns and villages. Naturally, it's not long before Paco is attracting attention from the Government; and the pair's different objectives soon lead to fights amongst themselves.<br /><br />This film works principally thanks to a good and interesting story, as well as the characters themselves which are intriguing and work well together. Franco Nero, of course, is the main star of the show and shows his versatility somewhat with the role. Of course, he played gunslingers in plenty of films; but here he manages to convince that he's Polish (although the accent does take a little getting used to). He receives good feedback from Tony Musante (who was the lead actor in Dario Argento's The Bird with the Crystal Plumage) and the pair have a good, if somewhat awkward, chemistry together. There's also a 'guest star' role for Jack Palance who plays a rival gunslinger. The film is not all that well known today, and that is probably because it is rather derivative of other and better known westerns; most obvious is the climatic shootout sequence towards the end which directly 'borrows' from Sergio Leone's masterpiece The Good, The Bad and The Ugly. Still, in spite of this; The Mercenary is a very well made and entertaining spaghetti western that should please all fans of the genre.