At the forty-two minute mark, this gets really interesting. Easily Daisuke Yamanouchi's best and most mature production. I didn't care at all for his "Red Room" films or "Blood Sisters", so I wasn't too enthused about this, either. A female reporter investigates the existence of "snuff" movies (visual records or people being actually murdered) and ends up being in one. Before that, she visits a porn shoot where a man eats a bloody tampon from a woman's vagina and drinks her blood. She interviews the actors as they break for lunch, establishing the fact that for performers in movies of this type, acts considered obscene by some are mundane jobs for others. The actress in this scene is clearly in it because she's an attention whore. After our intrepid reporter meets a shady character in a park, things begin to darken and she finds herself in possession of a videotape in which an attractive woman is kidnapped and abused. Just as a TV crew investigated the source of a snuff movie in Toshahiro Ikeda's "Evil Dead Trap" by identifying on-screen landmarks, so does this film's protagonist hit the road to pursue the source of her tape. She finds herself in a poor, rural area where she is attacked and captured. <br /><br />"Muzan-E" owes a great debt to "Guinea Pig", which owes a debt to "Videodrome", which owes a debt to the German "Pain" and "Violence" loops, which owe a debt to "Last House on Dead End Street", and so on, and so on. In other words, it's nothing original, but it is a toxic mix of extreme influences, and manages to create a disturbing mood, especially in its final section. The scene in which the reporter has her nipple ripped off is a keeper, as is the scene that follows. Yamanouchi's usually undisciplined style works to this film's advantage, and he shows restraint in the direction of the performers. The female lead is credible, and her ultimate state of insanity has a chilly edge.<br /><br />It is unfortunate that only this director's much more inferior work is available in English subtitled, US editions. His mixing of hardcore porn and grotesque horror works well in this effort. 'Tis a shame he has never made anything else that comes close to this blood-drenched, nasty piece of horror. It's heartily recommended.