Watching this classic again now that I am well into my thirties reminds me just how bland and painfully sanitized movies of today are. Can you even Imagine a movie made today in Hollywood, with a PG or even PG-Thirteen rating, coming anywhere close to the wonderfully political incorectness that this film had? Just off the top of my head I have made a list of the PC no-no's that this film gleefully rips to shreds. 1. Coach Morris Buttermaker (Walter Matthau). Constantly smoking cigars and downing more beer than a super bowl party held at A sports bar; in front of and in plain sight of little leaguers. My god, he even has, in one scene, one of his players mix him a martini as he lounges back on a lawn chair. If thats not enough, at the end of the movie he breaks out a cooler of bottles of beer and starts passing them around to the kids to drink! Remember these are not 17 or 18 year old high school kids, these are 11 and 12 year olds grade school kids! Yet nobody in the movie makes a terrible stink about it. Don't get me wrong, I do not in anyway condone underage drinking, but this is just a movie and I got to admit the way it was done was funny to watch. My point is that there is no way in hell you could pull that off today in a PG, PG-13, or maybe even R rating film.<br /><br />2. Tanner Boyle AKA The little Bigot. I have got to tell you, the character of Tanner Boyle was so UN-PC by todays standards that I am amazed that they got away with it 30 years ago. This kid is a hotheaded foul mouthed little punk that berates everyone and is always spoiling for a fight. Worst of all is his unabashed use of using several racial slurs to impune his fellow teammates. I will not repeat what he says but suffice to say that it strikes you with all the subtlety of a bucket of Ice water. However, just like the alcohol, they way the movie handles it is funny. I think the reason it works is that it doesn't pull any punches when it come to showing children in different lights. Kids are as diverse and complicated as adults. Some are kind, friendly, intelligent, caring, some are shy, troubled, frightened, introverted, and like it or not, some, just like this kid, are mean, nasty, foul-mouthed, and yes bigoted. You could NEVER get this kind of dialouge or this type of little racist in a PG or PG-13 movie today. Once again, I don't condone what the character is saying, But looking back on my childhood, I Knew a good number of "Tanner's" who acted just like this kid. Like it or not.<br /><br />In Conclusion, Bad News Bears is a very funny movie. Some people may be put off by its Political Incorectness, for the reasons I have already given, but I urge you see the film as a brutally honest portrait of not just kids in sports, but kids in general. My whole point was to illustrate how movies of today have lost there edge when it comes to dealing with delegate subjects, exspecally when kids are involved. All you have to do is look at the remake of The bad News bears a few years ago. While it did have some residual elements of the original, It was horrificaly gutted and cleaned up for todays crowds. Is that a good thing? Are the Un-PC moments I have mentioned here not better to do without completely? Well....It boils down to a matter of opinion. In my opinion, as I have stated before, it depends on how it is handeld. To me, if its honest or trying to make a point, it should not be hidden just to spare our feelings. I think we go to the movies to be entertained, yes, but remember one persons idea of what is "Trash" can also be another persons "Tresure". The Bad News Bears While being rough around the edges is a unpolished gem.