Let me start out by saying that I grew up with Final Fantasy and (even though I dislike most of the games, especially FFVII) the PS1. I had played and beaten FFVII and hated every bit of it. I thought the dialogue was cliché and poorly written, the backgrounds kindergarten crayon-style looking and the overall game play to be very boring. As a kid I got FFVIII for Christmas, played it and beat it. It took me over a hundred hours to do it, but I did it! That was the most intriguing part though! Every other game I had ever played was beaten in a couple of hours and barely played again. Final Fantasy VIII gave me something I had never seen before in a video game...a challenge.<br /><br />Not to mention epic beauty and dialogue that still fascinates me today. When I was maybe thirteen or so I lent this too a friend and he lost the third disc so for a long time I was replaying the first two discs or just crushing Ultimecia as best I could in the finale of the game. I had the PS2 at the time and spent a lot of time playing Tekken Tag, Devil May Cry and the GTA games. Yet I always kept the PS1 hooked up...until it broke. Also, my copy of FFVIII which I received the year it was released (1999) was in pretty haggard condition. Unfortunately I was without my favorite game for about four or five years! One day while speaking with a friend, he mentioned he had found a working PS1 emulator for the PC. What did I do? I found the PS1 emulator and pirated every FF for the PS1. Illegal yes, but totally necessary for a FF addict. Plus the PS2 FF's left a bad taste in my mouth, all of them missing the greatness which was FFVIII. Being eighteen at the time when I started to replay FFVIII I was more intelligent and had a better understanding of how all the junctioning worked (when you're ten years old and just looking for fun this can prove to be the most confusing thing ever). Playing it again I was brought back in time; the epic beauty, the to-this-day unparalleled cut scenes and the infinite possibilities with junctions and GF's (Guardian Forces). I always have wondered why they never brought that aspect back to any of the later FF games. It was what made the series unique instead of MP which always runs and you never have enough ethers for the last battle! <br /><br />Now, being nineteen years old and having played some of the finest RPG's out there like Oblivion, Fallout 3, and Star Wars KOTOR. Being nineteen and having played some of the finest action games out there like Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time, Call of Duty, and Batman: Arkham Asylum. This is still the greatest game I have ever played. A video game epic on a level that no PS3 or Xbox 360 insert has achieved. With a love story that feels real and that actually moves you and evokes your emotions. Characters that live in a world of fantasy but are similar to people we all went to school with and an ending that deserves GREATEST FINALE OF ALL TIME AWARD! If you have never played this game, go out and get it now! Or played it and just rushed through it so that you'd be able to say you played all the FF games, play it again! You will not be disappointed when you take a hundred hours and play this game straight down to the bone core and suck all the marrow out of it. <br /><br />Best Game Of All Time.