Lona Andre often played dizzy blondes but when she retired from films she became a successful real estate business woman. I can't find much evidence that she had many leads - A's, B's or Z's, her name was usually found in the middle to the bottom of the cast. At first she had parts in a couple of Bing Crosby movies - "College Humor" (1932) and "Too Much Harmony" (1933), then it was uncredited parts for Liberty Films "Two Heads On a Pillow" (1934) and "Let's Be Ritzy"(1934). So Lona, who seemed to be a bit dizzy in real life as well (her 4 day marriage to Edward Norris) must have jumped at the chance to star in a film that would give her the leading role. It was a J.D. Kendis production, who made films as cheaply as possible but managed to get reputable directors and familiar screen faces.<br /><br />A girl, Mary Lou (Louise Small), is found wandering along the road and is taken home to her mother. She jumped from a car driven by a gang of hoodlums, who were planning to kidnap her for prostitution. Acting on her information the police raid "BerryWood" road house and rescue 7 girls. She also identifies the driver "Good Looking Freddie" (he isn't)(Matty Roubert). Her friend Dona (Lona Andre) is a manicurist in a beauty salon that is a front for criminal activities. She doesn't realise this, but she is a bit suspicious of the bevy of pretty girls that are constantly applying for jobs. <br /><br />Dona and her fiancé, Phil, (Donald Reed) are on the spot when "Good Looking Freddie" is rubbed out. Phil, an unemployed reported gets the scoop, but the editor is suspicious - how was he lucky enough to be an eyewitness - he must be involved with the mob. He isn't but he does bet on horses and when placing a bet is given stolen money and then goes to jail for extortion. Dona goes to her boss for help in raising money for his bond. She directs Dona to Murray (Wheeler Oakman) who, she says can help. Mary Lou thinks she recognises Murray from her nightmare car ride but Dona refuses to believe her. When she later meets Murray at the "Bubble Up" Club, she is shown around and realises it is a brothel and the girls were the applicants for the manicurist jobs. One thing that makes this plot a bit different - Dona is innocently entrapped in the world of vice - she is not a crusading reporter going undercover. Undercover is what the plot seems to be. As with a lot of these exploitation movies - it is hard to figure out what "vice" is involved - unless it is the crime of bad variety acts!!!