This documentary could be seen as the first definitive look into the broad world of metal and it certainly does travel throughout the whole (well, most of) spectrum of metal. Sam Dunn gets to live out many a metalheads dream in this, interviewing a number of influential figures and traveling around to various places where sub-genres have been born. Oh and he also seems to be nearly scared to death during the interview with Gorgoroth's Gaahl.<br /><br />Dunn delivers the birth and rise of various sub-genres in near chronological order and gives enough detail for one to be familiar with each. But, it seems he ventures into territory that just should have been either shortened or left out. For instance: Glam Metal. This portion took up a great deal of time and could've been shortened a good bit to make room for something else. Pop Metal. Now that's just non-sense. That shouldn't have been included at all. As for the most part, the bands are rock. Nu-Metal is one that could have and should have been tossed. Perhaps it's due to a bit of elitism in these veins, but it's just not metal. The term was born from the media to describe a somewhat new form of rock that gathered elements from elsewhere and just happened to have a pretty 'heavy' sound. My biggest gripe though, is the complete absence of Doom Metal. It's a relatively big sub-genre to just leave completely out. Sure, My Dying Bride, the band basically considered responsible for the whole Death/Doom sound was included, but shoved into the 'Gothic Metal' rink. And what the hell was Cradle of Filth doing being listed in Norwegian Black Metal. And if I'm reading wikipedia correctly. How did Nightwish get tossed in there? I sure hope that's a mistake on whoever put the entry up on wikipedia. But oh well, at least that's the only mentioning they really had.<br /><br />Overall, it's a good release. I just mainly have personal gripes with some of the genre classifications as I know many others have had. I would recommend this documentary to anyone just getting into metal, that's for sure. A little more editing and such would have made this a better release but considering that this is the first real such documentary mass-released on this sort of thing. It's a job done well enough.