On the brink of World War II, a man believed killed in World War I returns in "Tomorrow is Forever," directed by Irving Pichel and starring Claudette Colbert, Orson Welles, George Brent, Richard Long, and Natalie Wood. After her husband John's death in the first world war, Elizabeth (Colbert) finds out she's pregnant. She ultimately makes a new life for herself with Lawrence (Brent), and together they have a daughter. Lawrence raises the son (Long) as his own. When "Dr. Kessler" (Welles), a scientist working with her husband, first appears at their home, Elizabeth doesn't realize it's John, who never returned to the U.S. because of his crippling, debilitating war wounds. He has a young child with him, Margaret (Wood), who it turns out is the child of his late doctor and his wife.<br /><br />This is a beautifully done movie in every respect, including Max Steiner's music (though a little strong at times), and holds the viewer's interest throughout. Colbert is lovely as a tormented woman who has to deal with the prospect of her son going off to war as his father did - and perhaps never returning. Her scene as she comes downstairs and sees Dr. Kessler for the first time is wonderful. Something about him startles and unnerves her immediately, and it's apparent on her face. Two young actors who died too young - Richard Long and Natalie Wood - also appear in the "Tomorrow is Forever." Handsome Long, who would find success in television, makes a good impression in his first film. Wood, a blond here, is absolutely adorable and very accomplished, speaking German and then English with a German accent.<br /><br />Orson Welles is an actor whose magnificent presence, acting technique, and voice allowed him to basically phone in most roles - his whole purpose in movie acting was to make money for his film projects - but obviously Irving Pinchot didn't accept a phone-in from him. Welles gives a very touching and believable performance as both young John and the older, ill Dr. Kessler. "Living in the past will not bring back what you had," he tells Elizabeth, "only destroy what you have." A wonderful, wonderful movie. Have a box of tissues nearby.