All parts of the Traces series are great! Of course this is for particular tastes, but those who like it, like it a lot!<br /><br />If you were fascinated by the "Banned from Television" series or more circulated material like the Real TV show and all the "see it to believe it" programs on the tube, then Traces of Death is the obvious next step. More demanding than Faces of Death, this compilation is a highlight reel of some of the best moments of mondo, news footage, and curios from around the world. Gore is the forefront for any traces tape, and if you like to be shocked or to "test yourself" this is a lot of fun, especially in a group setting! However, be forewarned that the images you will see are all 100% REAL and yes, disturbing as all heck. Without spoiling it, let's just say you might want to prepare yourself for scenes containing decapitation, castration, animal sacrifice, and of course cold blooded murder. I am not recommending that you watch this front of any unsuspecting friends or family as you will be treated with a likely tempered response. I think it is fun because of the way the subject matter is handled. Some people complain that the addition of Death Metal soundtrack in the latter parts of the series is annoying, but let me say that for me this completes the process and combines all aspects for the true "Death Enthusiast". I think the narration by host "Brain Damage" is both funny but also a little too cheesy. His hidden identity is a real joke, but again makes this a real fun romp for the slightly jaded! Another great thing is that it brings metal heads back to a nostalgic time when Relapse Records was the empire of the metal world, and when the "Death Metal" genre was at its peak. Classic cuts from bands like Kataklysm, Meshuggah and Macabre, will light up any metal head like a christmas tree!<br /><br />I guess my only complaint is that the whole thing is a pretty hack job. I mean I have made similar compilations on 2 VCRS and think that even I have a better skill at pacing and climax, especially in regards to fitting the music where it best belongs. Yet, all this is a minor quibble. The low-budget basement-cut feel and shlocky 90's production values add to the underground feeling you get when watching the Traces of Death series!<br /><br />You'll have to search the web to find a copy out there, as you surely won't run into this one at your local video store any time soon! Also check out the updated "Faces of Gore" series by Todd Tjersland for an even sicker experience!!!!!<br /><br />Play safe, and don't be so serious!!!!!