I first read the novel by Jackie Collins and I thought what a fantastic book, not Shakespeare obviously, but definitely a page turner. When I finished it I thought it would make a great movie. Little did I know it was already turned into a movie. I have to admit I was a little nervous about seeing the movie, as movie adaptations are usually always not as good as the book, and especially TV movies are usually pretty low on talent and budget. I finally tracked this movie down on DVD on ebay, and in spite of the negative reviews on IMDb, I really enjoyed it. While reading the novel I had images of what the characters looked like and for the most part the movie did a great job. I thought Melissa Gilbert as Taylor Singer was great, always loved her, Robin Givens was OK, but Farrah Fawcett was definitely not who i would have chose. The Character in the book was closer to a cross between Madonna and Marylin Monroe. Farrah Fawcett was definitely way too old for the part and looked weathered, tired and haggard much of the time, the rest of the time she had about a pound of makeup on and wore clothes 20 years too young for her.<br /><br />However I thought the movie was great. If your trying to take the movie seriously and looking for quality, then this movie probably deserves 2 stars, however, if your looking for some trashy, guilty pleasure, camp entertainment then this movie scores. This movie is a basic cable CBS movie of the week, yet its trying to be hip, edgy and sexy, like an HBO/skinamax movie. This is what makes this movie so enjoyable. It opens with Farrah Fawcett finishing up her make up, (which looks like bondo!!) and doing a truly jaw dropping Vanity Fair cover shoot. Farrah writhes and touches herself and mugs for the camera so unashamedly that you just cant help but laugh. She is just too old to be playing a drop dead sexy pop star! The story line weaves together Farrah's story with that of her 2 other Hollywood wife friends. Melissa Gilbert plays an ex actress now married to a prominent producer. Shes trying to write a script and turns to a 20 something hunk writer, who we see for the first time naked, save for a conveniently draped bed sheet. Melissa Gilbert is wonderful to watch as shes very eager to shed her safe image, and we she her talking about oral sex at lunch, taking her top off (back to the camera) and going to bed with her hunk numerous times and eventually acting in Showtime movie about lesbians!!. Farrah Fawcett in the mean time is dealing with an abusive husband who is sleeping with other women and using her as meal ticket. One shocking scene has Farrah getting slapped round by her husband in their bedroom, he throws her on the bed and then unzips his pants practically in her face,(hinting at forced oral sex) She later develops a relationship with a private investigater whom she hires. Robin Givens the last of our Hollywood wives has basically no part, and is mere filler. She is always talking about how wonderful she is and how she is adored by her fans, and is definitely a diva.<br /><br />The movie looks fabulous. All the women get to look fantastic. In every scene they are dressed to the nines and fully made up. The all drive expensive cars, live in luxurious homes and are filthy rich. The acting is pretty low, which adds to the trashiness. One scene between Farrah and her daughter is pretty shocking because of how bad the acting is. Farrah is supposed to be trying to give advice to her daughter about some man trouble, but cant find the right thing to say. Farrah acts like she forgot the dialogue and stumbles over her words and makes gestures that are so amateurish and lame, it looks like a scene off a blooper real!! Seeing Farrah try to act like a sex symbol and sing like a pop star (she lip syncs worse than Susan Hayward in Valley of the Dolls) makes this a so bad its good movie. The dialogue is full of hilarious profanity( remember its a TV movie so the characters go around saying "Bitch, Son of a Bich, ass, and bastard" as much as possible to make the movie sound edgy!! By the middle of the movie your wanting someone to say F***!!!!) The storyline keeps the viewer involved and has some twists and suspense as it gets to the end.<br /><br />If your a fan of trashy movies like Valley of the Dolls and movies that showcase an aging actress in a role too young for her, than this is def worth a look! Like the book this movie is mere entertainment and not some Academy Award winning art film!! If you watch this movie for some fun it won't disappoint!!!