Walking, with my friends, through our local video rental store, we happened upon the 2-for-1 special rack. Most of these movies were old releases of good movies, but than there were some we had never heard of. Looking through the alphabetical arrangement of the movies we happened upon the J section. We had been here before, joking about all these cheesy movies, but one movie we had always mentioned was Jackhammer Massacre.<br /><br />We'd always joke this was the perfect movie. First of all it had jackhammers. What is more manly than a pneumatic jackhammer? Just imagining the scenes that were capable with a jack hammer. And the word after Jackhammer...? Massacre. Do I even need to explain? OK I will. This implies many people will die. Together with jackhammer means that many people will die involving a jackhammer. Can it be this simple? The answer is, abso-freaking-lutley! The grisly death scenes combined with the super special FX make for a morbid gore fest. If that doesn't make you want to rent or buy now, let me mention it has a wonderful plot. I don't want to spoil this movie so i'll give a simple explanation.<br /><br />Our main character, aptly named, Jack, has fallen into the world of drugs. The movie starts out with Jack, a successful man with an expensive car. His problem, drugs. Jack can't get enough. His addiction turns him in to a mindless drug fiend, hanging with lower tier of the social pyramid. Eventually he loses his job, his car is repossessed, and now he lives with his social deviants in a cheap, run-down apartment in a bad neighborhood. When his friend dies he must leave the apartment. The scenes where he is homeless are very moving. We see how he tries to live, and feed his addiction. Eventually he finds a job as a warehouse security guard. His boss lets him live there, in a little sideroom. Jack tries to quench his thirst for his addiction, but being a security guard doesn't allow enough drugs for his appetite. Unbeknowst to him, a local dealer is hiding drugs in the warehouse. When Jack comes upon the drugs he has a feast. I'll stop here because the ensuing massacre with everyone who comes into the warehouse is too good to be spoiled.<br /><br />In conclusion this movie shows the life of squalor addicts live with. I felt compassion, fear, and pity for Jack. This movie is not about some cheesy death scenes. It is about a man's fall from grace. A man with nowhere to go, a man who succumbs to his abuse, and becomes mentally unstable. This movie will change the light at which you look at life.<br /><br />Rent this movie!