Well, what do you know? After mentioning this film in a completely different review, it pops up on the BBC less than a day later. Which gives me an excellent chance to watch this film one more time and judge it on merit and not memory.<br /><br />This time, Axel Foley (Murphy) returns to Beverly Hills to investigate the attempt on the life of an old friend and the connection with the so-called Alphabet Murders. Teaming up with his colleagues from the first film, Axel goes "deep undercover" to bring the perps to justice though not without indulging the viewer with a glorified view of Eighties California. You know, sports cars and palm trees. Rich bitches and their poodles, that sort of thing.<br /><br />The reason I mentioned "Beverly Hills Cop II" in my review was that, for me, it's one of those films that you know inside out and still enjoy watching it despite the fact that it isn't the best example of the genre. Cop movies are 10 for a dollar but this one always sticks in my mind. Watching it last night reminded me of an extended edition of "Miami Vice" with its sharp suits, fast cars and faster women. Even one of the characters refers to "six foot blonde women growing on trees" in Beverly Hills. All the Eighties references were there - the scene at Playboy Mansion, the angry police chief (this film had two), the hyperactive stockbroker and, of course, Eddie Murphy. When will someone tell him that his era ended when the Eighties did? I fail to see how a foul-mouthed comedian and actor like Murphy can go from films like this to the awful "Daddy Day Care". Interesting to see the man who filled his shoes in the Nineties, Chris Rock from "Rush Hour", in a small cameo. Made me smile, anyway.<br /><br />But for all it's faults, I still enjoy watching this film. At the time, it might have been cutting edge but now, it's more of a documentary. Simpson and Bruckheimer productions are all more-or-less identical but this has the added bonus of baring witness to an Eighties gloss overdose. Throughout this film, I kept getting reminded of that fantastic game "Grand Theft Auto: Vice City" and if you liked that, you'll enjoy this. Basically, if you can handle the bright neon and the famous synthersizer intro, you'll love it. But if you're still trying to blank the memory of Thatcher, Reagan and (more horrifically) The Human League, steer well clear.