I don't know why 'Dennis' only receives a 4.7 rating on IMDb because it is a rather enjoyable film with plenty of cute/funny moments that leave you chuckling so surely deserves a few points more. Based on the comic book and Eighties cartoon, this film centres on five-year-old Dennis, a boisterous little boy who just wants to help but everything he touches turns into a catastrophe. He hero-worships his miserable next-door neighbour Mr Wilson despite the old grump being the sort who thinks children should be seen and not heard. The main storyline is about a thieving hobo Switchblade Sam who has turned up in Dennis' town to make a picking except he hasn't counted on a certain blond-haired moppet making his life a misery!<br /><br />Mason Gamble was just so adorable as Dennis, giving a very engaging and energetic performance that leaves kids wanting to be his friend and adults wanting to adopt him. He's the sort of child who is cute but charming enough to not be just another cutesy Hollywood brat. Walter Mathau was also perfectly cast as the cantankerous Mr Wilson who just doesn't have time for small children and he has a very nice rapport with Joan Plowright, who played the exasperated Mrs Wilson. I also have to mention Christopher Lloyd as he is totally unrecognisable as the filthy, slimy Switchblade Sam and how he is just hilarious as the hardened thief who quickly regrets ever meeting Dennis.<br /><br />In many ways, this film is more involving and enjoyable than similar films such as 'Home Alone' since Dennis is a very sweet, likable character compared with the more cocky and, at times, grating Kevin. There is also few sugary, overly-sentimental moments that often crop up in family films. It would have been nice to see more of interactions between Mr Wilson and Dennis since that was always a great focal point of the cartoon series but this film is still a worthy successor. It should keep fans of the cartoon amused as well as thrill young kids who may not have ever heard of Dennis before now.