This is an excellent sequel that's very entertaining. It's loaded with great humor, lots of laughs, exciting action, and it had 3 excellent main leads but it can't quite match the original. The 2 main villains are very menacing, even though we hardly see Jurgen Prochnow, he was still very menacing when on screen. It's somewhat of a rehash of the 1st, but that's okay Murphy is still funny as hell, and The finale is excellent. One of the funniest parts in the film is, Reinhold's sudden obsession with huge guns, and it had some pretty powerful moments, especially when Capt Bogomil gets shot. The Direction is very good. Tony Scott does a very good job here, keeping the film at an exciting pace, injecting lots of great humor, good camera angles, and doing a great job overall!. There is some blood. but lots of very bloody gunshot wounds is all we get. The Acting is awesome!. Eddie Murphy is wonderful here, once again he is HILARIOUS, very likable, had great chemistry with, Ashton and Reinhold, and was lots of fun to watch!. Judge Reinhold, is also wonderful here, he is also HILARIOUS, seemed to be having a lot of fun, plus he he had a lot more to do this time around, and was very likable. John Ashton is excellent here once again, he is also quite funny at times, and very likable, and also had more to do. Jürgen Prochnow does good as one of the main villains, but didn't really have that much screen time. Ronny Cox is fine here again, but also didn't have that much screen time. Brigitte Nielsen is good looking, and did excellent here as one of the main villains, and man was she big!, she was also very menacing. Allen Garfield is very good here, but he was EXTREMELY unlikable,, and yelled to much and i just wanted to slap him!, he did his job well though. Dean Stockwell, has a small role here, and did fine with it.Paul Reiser is good here, once again. Gilbert R. Hill is great again as the tough inspector. Robert Ridgely is decent as the mayor. and Alice Adair is okay as Bogomil's daughter. And look out for a cameo by a very young Chris Rock!. Overall a must see! **** out of 5