I first watched The Killing Edge back in the mid 1990's when I found it on the bargain-price rental shelf at our local video shop. As I had never heard of the film before, and taking into consideration that this was a British, (And therefore shot on a shoestring budget!), post-apocalypse film, I had an idea that it was going to be a pretty poor excuse for a film. The storyline is pretty weak and full of holes, there has been a nuclear war that has wiped out most of civilisation, those survivors left alive are being rounded up by the remnants of the army and either shot out hand or forced to work the land, watched over by "The Terminators". The killing Edge follows one survivor, an ex-soldier who survived the holocaust thanks to being in a motorway tunnel when the attack happened, make his way through the contaminated wastelands in search of the wife and child he left at home on the morning of the war. The film is amazingly bad, for the most part the costumes appear to have come from really bad 1980's army surplus and charity shops, the acting is wooden and totally unconvincing. The sets range from a random field, an old gravel pit/landfill site, and supermarket car park on a Sunday morning and a foul 80's show home. This film really must have had a budget of about 10p. However, this is a good film if you can manage to open your mind and revel in its utter crapulence, so many plot holes, such little acting talent, bad costumes, bad props, bad sets, bad sound, you will wonder exactly how it was possible for someone to make such a rubbish film?! Furthermore, every time I have watched the killing edge I am left feeling utterly depressed, there are no high points to the film whatsoever. I must say that the theme music is genuinely excellent, a moody 80's synth tune that sounds like some old boy came up with it one afternoon whilst sitting at his new Casio keyboard on an easter bank holiday in 1985. Anyway, if you see this film at a bootfair or second hand shop part with your 50p, take it home and watch it.