The Fleischer Brothers Studio made 17 Superman cartoons in the early 1940s. All 17 are very, very similar and suffer from very low quality animation and plots compared to contemporary cartoons. While THE MECHANICAL MONSTERS is far from the worst of the lot (that honor goes to THE MUMMY STRIKES), it's also not particularly noteworthy and is typical of the low quality of the series. While I am no fan of the Fleischers' other series such as Popeye and Betty Boop because of their incredibly similar plots, they are far superior to the Superman cartoons when it comes to animation quality. You can't fault Popeye or Boop for their quality of their animation. While in color, the Superman films lack the detailed backgrounds, characters and line drawings of the other cartoons and they just look cheap.<br /><br />As for the plots, cheapness is also the case. Part of the problem is that you can't tell much of a story in only about eight minutes--no room is left for character development or depth to the villains. Another part is that the Fleischers didn't do much to create interesting plots or situations. In other words, the villain just appears and Superman beats the snot out of him...end of story.<br /><br />Here, we once again we have a generic villain. He unleashes some robots that are smaller versions of the type of robots you might have seen if you'd watched SKY CAPTAIN AND THE WORLD OF TOMORROW. But the robots are easily defeated and the whole thing is over before you can become too bored.<br /><br />Now if you read through the rest of the reviews, you'll see an awful lot of 9s and 10s for this and other Superman films. Frankly, I think these incredibly high ratings come from comic book fans and not people who can objectively rate the films. Fans tend to vote their favorite things 10s mindlessly and ignore a film's shortcomings. After all, any non-zombified fan has to admit that the cartoons have rather poor animation when compared to the Looney Toons and MGM cartoons of the era. Plus there just isn't enough depth to merit such outrageous scores. It's okay to enjoy the films, but can anyone seriously consider them among the very, very best cartoons ever made?! <br /><br />By the way, I saw this film on the DVD entitled "Cartoon Crazys: And The Envelope Please". This is a rather poor compilation of supposedly award winning and nominated films. Poor because several of the films are very lame and are NOT award nominated, the prints are rather bad and parts of some of the cartoons are missing!