This movie by no means is known as one of the greatest movies ever. After all, it's not suppose to be taken seriously to begin with. It's called "Dumb and Dumber" for a reason. However, to this day, this movie is still one of the most beloved comedies in decades. It still has a cult following. This movie is so damn funny, that I can't even explain it. The movie does a superb job at what it's suppose to do. It's not perfect, which is why I didn't give it a perfect score. It has a flew flaws that some movie critics would pick at. However, it's nothing compared to all the good.<br /><br />The storyline to the movie is both ridiculous and hilarious. It takes you on a tour of the lives of Harry and Lloyd; two guys in Rhode Island who are going nowhere in life. Once Lloyd finds the love of his life, he obsesses over her and even gets involved further in her life then he should have. She leaves an empty suit case at the airport and the content in it is very valuable. Lloyd grabs it and thinks she forgot it and wants to give it back to her but it's too late, she flew all the way to Aspen. So, Lloyd wants to go on a road trip with his buddy Harry and drive all the way to Aspen to return it to her. Little do they know that kidnappers and the FBI are after them. On their way they encounter several crazy and memorable characters. Seabass the tough redneck, Mental a somewhat stupid hit man and many more.<br /><br />The acting is very hilarious and well done. Jim Carrey does a great job at Lloyd who is so damn stupid and hilarious, it's hard not to like him. This character is one of Carrey's best. Jeff Daniels does and equally good job as Harry who is less dumb then Lloyd but still gets into plenty of trouble. The story overall is a road ride in the eyes of two likable idiots who are oblivious to everything and yet, they still manage to get out of trouble without even trying. The dialog in the movie is very funny and memorable. Several scenes are equally as memorable. Lloyd's fantasy dream for instance with his so called love Mary, Harry's explosive diarrhea, The cop drinking the pee out of the beer bottles, the Seabass scenes, the blind kid "pretty bird" scene, "the Don't worry, I'm a Limo driver" scene and several more. There were very few moments in this movie where I wasn't laughing.<br /><br />Overall this movie may not be perfect because the humor will not appeal to everyone. Some people may be too serious for this movie and if so, you're lose, go watch "Titanic." All I know is it's one of the funniest movies I have ever seen and to this day, I still watch it. I never get tried of it. It will be very hard for people with a sense of humor not to find this movie funny.