Battlestar Galactica is often dismissed as one of the most expensive turkeys in television history. Labelled a shameless Star Wars rip-off, the show exploded on to TV screens in the late 70s, only to peter out in its first season after audiences tired of increasingly lame scripts apparently built around the re-use of expensive effects footage. But to a generation of kids who could only tear themselves away from their Star Wars action figures for the weekly adventures of Apollo and Starbuck, it was the real deal. Now, like Star Trek before it, the much-maligned series looks set for a possible revival, with ongoing fan interest stirring rival camps to vie for production rights for a new series or cinema version. Battlestar Galactica was initially a major ratings success when it debuted in 1978 with a pilot episode detailing the destruction of human civilisation by the robotic Cylons - chrome-plated disco stormtroopers with metallic voices that were the last word in Casio home synthesiser effects.<br /><br />Lorne Greene as Adama effectively reprised his patriarchal leader role from Bonanza, leading the wretched remnants of human civilisation as they fled their mechanical oppressors in search of refuge on a lost planet called Earth. Richard Hatch played his son Apollo, while a scene-stealing Dirk Bennedict played his roguish friend Starbuck. The two blow-waved heartthrobs were clearly moulded on Luke Skywalker and Han Solo, but worked brown velvet in a way their cinema counterparts never could. Early plotlines -- involving mass starvation, political corruption, class division and religious fanaticism -- effectively detailed the desperate plight of the refugees and caught the imagination of viewers. But when the pilot episode won huge ratings, the full-length series that was hastily rushed into production abandoned such complex and gritty storylines for more puerile scripts that inevitably involved lots of re-used clips of explosions. Character development largely went out the window. Blonde vixen Cassiopeia (Laurette Spang), introduced in the pilot as a prostitute rescued from a baying refugee mob by Starbuck, was inexplicably reassigned as a nurse and a generic love interest. A disgruntled Jane Seymour apparently demanded that her character, Serina, be shot dead by a Cylon at the first possible opportunity. Her wish was granted in the fourth episode, leaving fans wishing that her son, Boxey and his yapping mechanical dog, Muffet, had also fallen under Cylon swords. Human traitor Baltar, who had been so satisfyingly hacked to death by his Cylon allies in the cinema version of the pilot, was the subject of an absurd plot alteration that saw him leading the genocidal robots in their quest to finish off humanity. John Collicos camped it up as Baltar, chewing through his ridiculous dialogue with occassional style. Baltar's queeny power struggles with his lieutenant, Lucifer - a bitchy robot with an impressive wardrobe of capes - were an ongoing feature of the series. Amid the recycled dog fights and budget-saving plotlines that involved characters being regularly stranded on backward planets that inevitably resembled Earth, several excellent episodes were produced that have maintained fan interest to this day. Lloyd Bridges put in a star turn as the war-mongering Commander Cain and Patrick McNee appeared as a seductive alien who was probably Satan. Despite occasional dramatic flourishes, the often-puerile plotlines alienated advertiser-friendly demographics. The show was axed at the end of its first season, leaving the storyline unresolved and a generation of kids feeling ripped off. Many more were tempted the following year with the appearance of Galactica 1980, a ultra-cheap bastardisation of the original show detailing the arrival of the refugees on a contemporary Earth. It failed to attract even the very young demographic it was aiming for. Twenty years later, actor Richard Hatch, series creator Glen A. Larson and the Sci Fi Channel are all working on separate Galactica proposals. Although copywrite issues continue to cloud the possibility of a revival, many fans will retain their fond childhood memories of this much maligned show.