Pretty Baby, by Louis Malle raises a myriad of questions when viewed almost thirty years after its creation. "Niggling" questions about the appropriateness of the film itself, the topic of child prostitution, the use of young actresses and actors, the film's moral detachment, whether is should have been made or could be made again all flitted through my mind as I soaked in the beauty of the images. I was also captivated by the sub themes of race, class, and gender inequity were so subtly and effectively presented. Sven Nykvist's cinematography make it, for me, one of the most beautiful to look at films ever made. I love to see beautifully filmed movies and Pretty Baby is certainly that. Malle filmed it in hot and humid Louisiana and Mississippi but his focus on the visuals and his detachment from the characters and their situations give it a coolness and richness which were able to quiet questions in my mind. I don't think there are or have been many directors capable of making this film and seeing it released. I, for one am grateful Louis Malle was able to do so.<br /><br />I've read comments that Pretty Baby glamorizes child prostitution. That isn't what I experienced while watching it. As beautiful as Pretty Baby is to look at, seeing the twitching faces of the men during the auction of Violet and then their nonchalance and camaraderie in partaking in it made me shudder. What kind of people are these? But I don't mean to ask that question in a judgmental was but with true curiosity. In the end Malle give us a kind of happy ending. Hattie has rejected the prostitution of the whorehouse for the prostitution of marriage and has come and rescued Violet from New Orleans and Storyville. The closing shot gives us a long look at Violet's reaction to the prospect her altered and unknown future. A lot can be projected onto Brooke Shield's face.<br /><br />I remember seeing Pretty Baby back in '78 but I do not recall being particularly shocked. Seeing it now I could feel the nags and the amazement when experiencing Malle's audacity. Those were interesting times and my, how they've/we've changed.!