A very special film with unique qualities, "August Rush" wins your heart with strong performances from adorable Freddie Highmore as the orphan with the puppy-dog eyes and massive talent, charismatic Jonathan Rhys Meyers and gorgeous Keri Russell as the lovers torn apart by circumstances. An utterly original modern-day fable with elements of "Oliver Twist," the plot normally would be considered totally implausible, but director Kirsten Sheridan makes it work -- because you root for these characters. And who doesn't want to believe in happily ever after, especially when you become so emotionally invested? With its emphasis on music as both a life-changing element and a lifeline, the film uses its excellent soundtrack as dialogue. The rhythms of everyday life become part of the score, and the eclectic mix of songs works well. Mark Mancina provided original music. The performers are perfect for their roles. Russell, so good as TV's "Felicity," brings a classiness and intelligence to every part she plays. Dublin-born Meyers, who channeled the young vibrant Elvis in a CBS mini-series a few years ago, winning a Golden Globe, is always interesting on screen. And Highmore, who first came to prominence in "Finding Neverland" and then starred as the lead in "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory," is one of the most gifted child actors around. The cast also includes Terrence Howard as a sympathetic child services worker, pint-sized Jamia Simone Nash as a powerhouse vocalist, Mykelti Williams as a kind minister, and Alex O'Loughlin of TV's "Moonlight" as Lewis' brother Marshall. An interesting note, Meyers' real brother, Jamie O'Keefe, plays drums in the Connellys band. (Meyers used his mother's maiden name when he became an actor instead of O'Keefe). Kirsten Sheridan, daughter of the famed director Jim Sheridan, knows how to build suspense but the payoff might not fit everyone's idea of a good movie. She also co-wrote the outstanding "In America," and has a knack for working with kids and finding the lyricism in storytelling. Music can change your life. And because it's the driving force of the film, the sound is exceptional, as is the film's lush look. "August Rush" is very uplifting, and rich with metaphors about the simplicity and beauty of music. If you believe, just go with the flow, and you'll be smiling while your eyes mist up, for it's a hopeful and heartwarming story that you don't find too often in our jaded, cynical world.