August Rush is a modern-themed story about the power of a life force flowing through all of us and how synchronicity, faith and self-assuredness guarantee that each of us can personally fulfill our destiny. Although this film plays well to a broad audience, it is very mystical and based on simple, yet emotional themes that will play flat to some movie-goers.<br /><br />If you have strong parental feelings or enjoy movies centered on the power of human love and attraction, this story will move you like few films ever have. Great for families- it's completely devoid of explicit scenes that make parents squirm and carries a positive message. Similarly, if you prefer uplifting stories championing the resilience of the human spirit, you'll love it. I gave the film a 10 for that reason- it will remain a personal favorite for years to come. However, if you are easily bored with themes that are lacking in danger and suspense or prefer gritty true-to-life movies, this one may come off as a disappointment.<br /><br />The screenplay seems written as a spiritual message intimating that there is an energy field that connects all of life, and music is one of the domains available to any who care to experience it.<br /><br />The plot is simple but deep in implication- an orphaned boy wants to reunite with his parents and feels that his inherited musical genius can somehow guarantee their return. Meanwhile, both parents languish in separation, fate having split them as quickly as it united them in parenthood. Neither know they are parents (see movie for explanation). The film itself was accomplished with imaginative directing and is studded with vivid imagery that punctuates the emotional ebb and flow of the story. <br /><br />I liked the music, which was richly textured in genre, ranging from classical elements to a folksy modern collection of songs that were tastefully presented by some of the leading cast members. Music is the center-piece of this film, and it works.<br /><br />I thought the casting was excellent, although none of characters really stood out from the others. Robin Williams plays an antagonistic role, delivering a smashing performance as an orphaned street-wise survivor of enormous depth and understanding, but tragically maligned by a life of rejection. This is a midrange performance by Williams, not the quiet and subdued moodiness of Good Will Hunting, nor the over-animated Morky style. He gives interesting color and charm to a darker figure synchronistically woven into the lives of his fellow cast members. Bravo! Young Freddie Highmore is sharp and charming, though narrow in expression. Just as expected, his natural charisma shines through in a most refreshing manner. Parents Keri Russell and Johnathan Rhys Meyers each lend flawless performances in captivating resonance with the other actors and the film itself. They are interesting and believable. Terrence Howard plays a small but significant part and underacts as well as Kingsly or Gielgud. Excellent! Leon G. Thomas III and Jamia Simone Nash (children) both earn honorable mention. This movie treads on every heartstring. I loved its invitation to believe in the extraordinary miracles of everyday life. Take your kids, your significant other, your parents, or any friend. It is August and will give you a very pleasant Rush. Sit back, breath deep, and get riveted!