Reviewed by Elliot V. Kotek (from HATCHfest 2007 in Bozeman, Montana)<br /><br />Director: Kirsten Sheridan Starring: Freddie Highmore, Keri Russell, Jonathan Rhys Meyers, Jamia Simone Nash, Marian Seldes, Robin Williams.<br /><br />If you've ever questioned the impact of music on emotion, August Rush is a must-see that will bury any doubt for all time. Featuring Jonathan Rhys Meyers as rock-star Louis and Keri Russell as New York Philharmonic cellist Layla, and starring Finding Neverland's heartbreak kid, Freddie Highmore, Rush delivers an experience that borders on the sublime and somewhat sentimental in a manner that rivals Neverland and would be reminiscent of Titanic if that ship had not sunk. A stirring performance here by Russell will definitely remind end-of-year voters of her work in Waitress and should serve to solidify her chances for an Oscar-nom.<br /><br />The premise: A promising musician (Russell) is impregnated by a brooding but romantic Irishman (Rhys Meyers) in a one-night affair overlooking Washington Square Park that will change the course of their lives. Despite splinters of wooden dialogue and the obvious, yet ultimately satisfying, use of the music of Van Morrison early in the proceedings, the movie moves past both and bowls audiences over with poignant performances and stunning visuals in a first-class production. Layla's protective father falsely informs his daughter that her love-child did not survive birth, and delivers the boy, Evan, to the State, where the influence of all sounds great and small fill the boy with musical ambition and intuition.<br /><br />In addition to the above-the-liners already singled out, Robin Williams wows in a blinding turn as Wizard, a menacing Fagin whose Oliver Twists are young, homeless musical prodigies and whose milk-cart careers he manages in exchange for their daily take and a fancy stage name. Onto the young Evan, he bestows the moniker August Rush (inspired by a passing grocery van). Director Sheridan (Jim's daughter, Kirsten) keeps the reins on her comic Wizard, and Williams seems to subtly straddle the line between sympathetic and psychotic. Also more than merely noteworthy is Jamia Nash, an 11-year-old with some of the best lines of the flick, who boasts a healthy dose of moxie that provides the perfect counterbalance to some of the heavier themes that accompany a film about an orphan searching for parents he isn't sure exist.<br /><br />While the genesis of the film may have started with producer Richard Barton Lewis's vision of his then-newborn son's little digits directing his own symphony in a Santa Monica delivery room, the screening of this film is sure to inspire many more digits to pick up and pick at a six-string just to see what happens. Here's hoping studio support for the film will see screens increase after opening to take advantage of what should be great word of mouth. With screenings set for the upcoming Heartland FIlm Festival (where the film has been branded with a Crystal Heart Award), the Rome Film Festival and elsewhere, this moving tale is sure to find itself a fixture with families worldwide.