Here is the short (besides her last cartoon Little Rural Riding Hood), that got me to love to the first overtly erotic cartoon character ever created - Red. Now this short Red Hot Riding Hood is one of Avery's most popular cartoons, and some consider the cartoon to be Avery's magnum opus.<br /><br />The story begins with the standard version of the Little Red Riding Hood story; until the characters suddenly rebel at this done-to-death staging and stated "every cartoon studio in Hollywood has done it this way;" which is kind of the turth, and demand a fresh approach. So, the annoyed narrator accedes to their demands and starts the story again in a dramatically different arrangement. And now, the story is set in a contemporary urban setting where Red is a sexy adult nightclub entertainer. The Wolf is a debonair skirt chaser who is in love with Red but she wants nothing to do with him. Red escapes Wolf saying she's going to her Grandma's house, but when Wolf arrives Red is nowhere to be found. Grandma is an oversexed man-chaser who falls head over heels over Wolf, and locks him in her apartment, puts on a bright red shade of lipstick and tries to kiss him several times during his stay. He tries to escape but the lovelorn granny chases after him, and every door Wolf opens Grandma is there waiting with puckered lips.<br /><br />In contrast to my favorite cartoon character Betty Boop, who was a character who exuded a sweetly innocent style, Red was pure sex, existing almost exclusively to whip the Wolf (a metaphor for males in general) into a carnal frenzy. With this short as her introduction, Red was the sexy distraction for the oversexed, lusting "Wolf" character that was introduced earlier in the 1942 short "Blitz Wolf." She drove the sex-crazed wolf do all the things that were to become trademarks of Avery's cartoons: the eye-popping, the jaw dropping, and the gravity defiying pratfalls. She was so popular that she was brought back for 3 more cartoons - "Swing Shift Cinderella," "Uncle Tom's Cabana" and "Little Rural Riding Hood." Her cartoons were originally made for the benefit of U.S. GI's, and were banned from television for years for being considerd to racy.