I would love to know what the death toll was for Supergator, because once the beast starts eating folks it doesn't stop. I mean, it doesn't even attempt to take a rest break, it just keeps eating and eating..it has quite an appetite.<br /><br />This time the killer monster is a prehistoric alligator from the Paleostone age(..recreated from the DNA of a jaw bone, these scientists never learn)running rampant on the wild life refuge of a Hawaiin island, eating every human being in sight.<br /><br />What I found most amusing was how the filmmakers went out of their way to create these various story-lines / sub-plots, maneuvering characters into positions just to be eaten. They exist only as a food source. Kelly McGillis stopped by to pick up a paycheck as the scientist(..or one of the scientists) responsible for the creature's creation. John Colton is the water boat hunter she hires to help her find it. Brad Johnson is a vulcanologist researching a volcano, afraid it might just erupt. Josh Kelly is a young apprentice assisting him and Bianca Lawson is a former student, now a journalist wishing to follow along, working on an article detailing their progress. Mary Alexander Stiefvater is the volcano expert who called Johnson about the volcano. Others show up primarily to be eaten.<br /><br />Like other sci-fi channel movies of this type, the filmmakers rely heavily on computer generated effects. When they shoot attacks up close, the filmmakers create vague depictions of bloody arms and legs caught within the sharp grip inside the mouth of the gator. What's frustrating about this process is that you barely can see any of the bloody action, although the victims' screams are pretty effective as they are being torn into. Like in Jaws, Supergator has the public event scene(..a luau in this particular situation)our heroes attempt to stop due to the dangerous threat, falling on deaf ears with the organizers, resulting in a massacre. The cgi attacks are rather laughable, with only one or two that are even remotely effective. To their credit, the filmmakers try their best to stage the attacks as ferocious and horrifying as possible, but the cgi is just too obvious. I believe the closer attacks are staged so erratically due to the fact that all they had was a prosthetic mouth(..probably hands just operating it off screen), so the editing is haphazard not just for the attempt of capturing the situation in a feverish intensity, but out of necessity.