-a cute little girl Heather is the typical American girl complete with the attitude and the "whatever" demeanor. one day after awakening form a nightmare in a mall she is confronted by a detective who asks her odd questions about her childhood and after losing him she finds that that strange things begin to manifest such as the mall turning into a rusty ugly place filled with demons and what not and after escaping she bumps into a crazy lady that claims that she has being looking for her for a long time. she gets home to find her dad killed and finds that the crazy lady had something do with it so she decides to investigate what is really going on by visiting Silent Hill and also at the same time find out the truth about her "burning" past<br /><br />-this game is pretty much a sequel to the first game with a lot of the characters from that game appearing in this which makes for a really great story because in it's own confusing way it actually helps the story from the first game make a little bit of sense. the little twist involving the main character is by far one of the best developments ever in a video game. throughout the whole game you think you know who she is but in a second you find that she's a MAJOR character from the first game and the movie now all grown up. It's not a mind blowing twist like the one involving James and how his wife really died in "Silent Hill 2" but it's still pretty damn good. last week I got an email from one of my friends that made me feel like doing back flips. The email read that Christophe Gans maybe doing another "Silent Hill" which made me happy beyond belief. If the first movie went with the first game's plot then I hope that he uses the plot involving the grown up Alessa from this game for the next movie. He could also combine some elements from the second game since it has the best story in the franchise but whatever the case I have full faith in Mr. Gans and know he will make another masterpiece that I'll obsess over.<br /><br />-all the trademarks of the "Silent Hill" franchise like not knowing what's going on for a good 40% of the game, the mechanical/orchestral score by Akira Yamoaka, plot twists so good that it makes Shymalan look like nothing and of course creatures so weird you'll wonder from the mind of what twisted person designed them are all present and accounted for. Apart from story every thing is improved from the previous games including the controls which were a bit frustrating at times to the graphics which is just amazingly f**ked up in this game. It's not uber realistic like "Half-Life 2" but rather just looks like something out of a really bad dream. The previous game looked really disturbing but this one just blows that one out of the water. From the environments to the great creatures everything in the game is amazingly well detailed and guaranteed to make you pee a little. The only downside to the graphics is the characters who have some really awkward faces and texture animation but hey when the game play and story is so good it doesn't make it much of an issue.<br /><br />-Akira Yamoaka keeps on improving and improving as the games go along and whiles for me personally I think "Silent Hill 2" contains the best music this is one is very close behind. It still has all the weird sound effects mixed with orchestral and electronic instruments which provides for some really creepy music that enhances the scare factor. My favorite piece in there is the cue "One's Weaker Self" which is this bellowing male vocals that sounds like the voices of hell. it's also played in the movie for the scene when Sharon gets a peek at Alessa's dark side when the movie begins. There are tender moments in the score but for a most part it's the weird creepy stuff that he does so damn well. one great improvement over the past games is the creatures who are a lot more messed up in this one and whiles there's no creature that rivals my boy Pyramid Head the creatures should make any normal human being get skid marks in their knickers when they see them coming at them.<br /><br />-if you like games that draw you in and if you saw the masterpiece of enjoyable cinema that was the movie "Silent Hill" and want an idea of what will happen in the sequel then pick this game up, but if disturbing images and odd looking demons aren't your thing then it's best to stick to "Barbie's Horse Adventure" <br /><br />I miss you Pyramid Head