Although it originally premiered as a miniseries on Italian television, "The Best of Youth" arrived in America in the form of a not particularly viewer-friendly, six-hour-plus, all-at-one-sitting theatrical release. As one who loves movies but who can still acknowledge his limitations when it comes to sitting still for ungodly lengths of times, I really must take my hat off to all those hardy souls who rose to the challenge and went to see this film at their local bijous. I'm not sure which I admire more: their physical and mental stamina or their phenomenal bladder control. (For a bit of perspective, the film runs almost twice as long as "Doctor Zhivago" and a good two hours longer than "Cleopatra," the lengthiest American film of all time). Luckily, for the cinematic wimps among us, "The Best of Youth" has arrived in a format - namely, a two-disc DVD set - that is far more reasonable and sensible given the episodic nature of the material and our own limited attention spans.<br /><br />Reaching across no fewer than five turbulent decades - from the mid-1960's to the present day - the film focuses on two Italian brothers who are very different by nature but whose paths continually cross and overlap throughout the years. The younger and less "promising" of the two, Nicola starts off as something of a dewy-eyed idealist, determined to right the social wrongs he sees in the society around him. To this end, he becomes a doctor dedicated to reforming the abusive mental health system in Italy at that time. However, as he ages, he begins to see the dangers of unbridled radicalism and becomes gradually more pragmatic and accepting in his outlook on life. His older brother, Matteo, despite his tremendous early promise in medical school, is a fiery-tempered loner who turns to police work as a profession, a move Nicola looks upon with bewilderment and disdain, seeing it as a betrayal of the free-spirited idealism Matteo espoused as a youth. One of the better choices on the part of the writers, Sandro Petraglia and Stefano Rulli, is keeping Matteo a largely enigmatic figure throughout the course of the story. They never spell out exactly why Matteo is the way he is or what it is in his background that has led him to the choices he makes. The reason why this is so effective is because we are as perplexed by his seemingly irrational behavior as are the loved ones who so often become the unwitting victims of it. In addition to the two brothers, the authors and the director Marco Tullio Giordana fill their canvas with any number of rich and fascinating secondary characters, some of whom play major roles in the lives of Matteo and Nicola and some of whom play only minor ones. Yet all are finely drawn and expertly enacted by a flawless cast.<br /><br />Although it doesn't quite achieve the emotional resonance, thematic depth, and ingenious creativity of a true miniseries masterpiece like "Six Feet Under" (though, at times, it comes close), "The Best of Youth" still offers much to hold the viewer's attention throughout its exhaustive (though never exhausting) length. The film moves quickly, and it rarely goes for the obvious in its storytelling. Indeed, it offers many unexpected plot turns and narrative surprises that keep the film from falling into a formulaic trap and that keep us wondering where it is all ultimately heading to. In fact, the filmmakers often seem to be leading us in a particular direction with a particular character, only to throw up a detour and have us go in an entirely different direction entirely. One of the few weaknesses of the film is that, while it touches on such subjects as civil unrest, governmental and corporate corruption, and underground terrorism, the script doesn't provide enough of an historical context (i.e. specific names and movements) to make it very informative for those of us who might like to know a few more of the details of recent Italian history. But where it really counts - as a human drama filled with complex and fully realized individuals who make a mark on our hearts - the film delivers the goods and then some.<br /><br />Of course, one of the advantages that a work of this length has over the usual two or two-and-a-half-hour drama is that it can far more effectively convey the passing of time and the handing of the torch from one generation to another. It also allows us to grow and change right along with the characters. The final scenes of "The Best of Youth" are tremendously moving and exhilarating simply because we feel as if we have truly come to know these people as individuals and will miss them when they're gone. The penultimate scene showing the need for the living to move on with their lives hearkens back to that lovely and unforgettable final moment in "Places in the Heart." Naturally, special note must be taken of Luigi Lo Cascio and Alessio Boni who, as Nicola and Matteo, beautifully convey the subtle changes their characters go through as the years pass by.<br /><br />And, of course, all of this plays out against the backdrop of the rich Italian landscape, filled with ancient Roman ruins, Medieval art and architecture, and glorious vistas of the sparkling Mediterranean Sea. As a travelogue alone, the film is worth seeing.<br /><br />Yes, "The Best of Youth" is long and time-consuming, but, as a viewer-friendly DVD, the length should no longer be an obstacle to one's enjoyment of the film. Check it out and immerse yourself in the very special pleasures it has to offer. You won't soon forget it.