**SPOILERS** With this gang of psychos calling themselves "The Peoples Revolutioary Task force" terrorizing the city of San Francisco. while this is happening the city fathers from the clueless mayor, John Cawford, on down are only interested in being politically correct and force on it's top cop Insp. "Dirty Harry" Callahan, Clint Eastwood, a woman Inspt. Kate Moore (Tyne Daly)as his new partner.<br /><br />Harry having trouble with the top police brass about his unorthodox methods in law enforcement, shooting first and asking question's later,is hardly amused with Kate. Feeling that her Job should be in the home doing house-work and bringing up a couple of kids instead of being on the streets hunting and shooting down bad guys. Armed to the teeth the revolutionaries lead by this psycho Vietnam Vet Bobby Maxwell, Deveren Bookwalter, decide to strike it big by kidnapping the mayor himself and hold him hostage. Maxwell will then ask for 5 million dollars with a promised from the state and city of safe passage out of the country.<br /><br />You can easily see where the movie is leading up to with Harry being stymied at every turn by his gutless superiors. These gutless political hacks are more interested in their jobs photo-ops and promotions then in the safety of the people of San Francisco. Harry was about to break the case wide open when he got former militant Black Panther leader and now Man of Peace Big Ed Mustapha, Albert Popwell, to finger the terrorist group leader and where he and his gang of terrorists can be found. It was Harry's egomaniac boss Capt. McKay, Bradford Dillman, who blew the entire deal by storming Big Ed's headquarters and arresting Big Ed and a number of his followers, who were unarmed and not breaking any law to speak of.<br /><br />On the streets with his new partner Insp, Moore tagging along Harry goes to see the outspoken Father John, M.G Kelly. Father John runs a church that Maxwell was involved with and member in since he was in prison at San Quentin. Father John lambasting Harry about entering a house of God with anger and violence in his heart and a gun in his holster is suddenly startled. One of the nuns in his church of love and peace Sister Wanda, Samanta Doane,is shot down and killed not by Harry but his partner the rookie Inspt. Moore. It's revealed that she herself, Sister Wanda,was secretly a member of Maxwell's terrorist gang. Sister Wanda was also packing a shotgun, in a house of God no less, and was just about to blow an unsuspecting Harry away. A now totally distraught but brought back to the real world Father John, finally seeing the light,tells Harry that The Peoples Revolutionaries are holding up, with the kidnapped Mayor, in the now closed Alcatraz Island. Harry and Insp, Moore head out to "The Rock' for a final showdown with Bobby Maxwell and friends in the movies bullet riddled and explosive final sequence.<br /><br />A more humanized and humorous Dirty Harry who at least tries to follow the law, and not try going above or around it, in doing his job. It's the likes of Capt. McKay and the city bureaucrats like the Mayor that makes his job almost impossible to do. Harry who at first had little respect for his new partner woman cop Kate Moore later was almost in tears when she was gunned down saving his life, for the second time in the movie, by taking a bullet that was meant for him. Harry after saving the Mayor's life,by blasting his kidnapper Bobby Maxwell, walked away from the grateful Mayor in disgust; he spends his remaining moments in the movie standing alone and grieving over his dead partners, Inpt. Moore, body.