"The Enforcer" ranks as the least interesting Dirty Harry police procedural and its chief gimmick is pairing up our gritty, trigger-happy, insubordinate cop with a female sidekick. She prefers for him to refrain from performing favors for her. He manages to keep her alive for most of the movie, including an amusing scene on a ordinance testing range. A radical group is loose in San Francisco, and they have stolen some L.A.W.S. rockets and plan to use them. Harry ignites the controversy for his lone wolf handling of several robbers in a liquor store by driving his police cruiser through the glass storefront and blowing the opposition away with his Model 29 Smith & Wesson 44 Magnum. This act of legal janitorialism is him transferred to Personel. His sidekick is DeGeorgio (John Mitchum of "Dirty Harry"), but like most of Dirty Harry's partners, he catches a bullet from these unsavory villains and dies. Bradford Dillman in the first of two Dirty Harry movies plays the top cop Captain McKay and he makes it clear to Callahan in no uncertain terms that he doesn't approve of his methods. The radicals abduct the mayor (John Crawford)and take him to Alcatraz. Predictably, Harry is not about to let them get away with it. Nevertheless, the city of San Francisco punishes him and he decides to take matters in his own hands. Future "Cagney & Lacey" star Tyne Daley is appropriately unglamorous as Harry's sidekick Inspector Kate Moore. There is a rooftop chase that goes on far too long and at one point Harry plunges into a porno movie in production. James Fargo directs with an impersonal but efficient enough style. Daley easily steals the show as the most sympathetic of the characters. Naturally, she wins the admiration of the eponymous character. There is something approaching routine here with this Dirty Harry installment. Jerry Fielding wrote the music. The villains don't hold a candle to either the mad sniper Scorpio in "Dirty Harry" or the clean-cut rookie cops in "Magnum Force." The next Dirty Harry "Sudden Impact" restored considerable tenacity to the franchise and still gave the leading lady something important to do.