This is one of the worst new horror movies I've ever seen. Okay, there are a lot of bad new horror movies out there (the prequels to the prequels of famous 70's or 80's horror classics), but these is really far from the worse. I can't understand who is actually letting Rob Zombie (a rock singer or whatever he is) to direct this piece of crap, because he is even worse horror movie director than famous "Ed Wood". Even more, Plan 9 from Outer Space is a brilliant classic comparing to this amateur horror movie.<br /><br />The plot: two guys and two girls are searching for the clues for the local legend Dr. Satan. After that they found a house of the disturbing family, full of serial killers. The story is "copy - paste" of Texas Chainsaw Massacre. Nothing more than that. That proves that Rob Zombie is talentless idiot, who is stealing everything from the classic horror movies. There is nothing original in this movie so I am quite angry to see how some people can afford to direct movies with nothing to show in it, just a bunch of washed up ideas. But there is a lot of people out there, who are having a fresh ideas, but they can't show it to the world because they don't have the connections in Hollywood or entertainment industry.<br /><br />The main villain is named Dr. Satan. How long did Rob Zombie need to came up with so predictable and unoriginal name like Dr. Satan? The violence in the movie is silly and boring. You have a feeling like Zombie is filling us with violence because he doesn't have no idea how to develop a story. The acting is horrible and so bad even for the lowest "B" movies. Hell... even Sarah Michelle Gellars acted better in I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER movies. The script is really bad written, like it was written by 5 - year old kid, who thinks that Sleeping Beauty is a horror story. The dialogs and humor is even worse, jokes are bad, primitive and without any sense. The music is okay, but for that I rather go to the concert than watching this piece of untalented crap movie.<br /><br />House of 1000 corpses is a good sample of the fact, that you can be whatever you want (despite of not having good ideas), as long you're having a good connections in the entertainment industry. Rob Zombie doesn't have nothing to say: he's just copying stuff from the other movies and deliver them to his fans. That's insulting.<br /><br />P.S.: There is no spoilers in my comment, because I was watching this movie for about 15. minutes.