You know this is one of those movies that I went into with hateful expectations and did my best to make sure that's exactly what I got. I was critiquing it from the start, and even at the most random things. Now, I apologies. "House Of 1000 Corpses" may not seem original, but it is to an extent. Like I really appreciate it's humor, and retro-aspect, and characters, who yes at times may seem faceless, but they've got more of a pulse than the people in most horror films like this. Sure it may seem a little too "Texas Chainsaw" at times, but hey if you liked "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre", like me, than you shouldn't have a problem with it. I mean it's not like the family were cannibals, or had a member named feather-face who carried a driller :-P Anyways about the movie. The Ups: It's very entertaining, and I must say very thrilling. In fact this is a creepy movie by how real it is. Okay realism is something I truly look for in a horror film(along with characters and story structure), because it seems to me that if a horror film(of any kind) can in some way be portrayed very realistic to even a not so realistic situation than it has more potential to scare people like me. Personally if a horror film can be real enough to where it's scary by, not only how it can really happen, but by the fact that it DOES happen. This movie succeeds in scaring us that way, if you truly put yourself in these characters position you will feel that feeling of fear, anxiety, and hopelessness. The characters are fun, and even though they've been done a million times, you still like them, plus they're very real. Like I love these arn't kids that look like they'd be on a photo spread advertising American Eagle, they look like normal people, which makes it more real and scarier. Sure they may be dull and/or annoying at times, but it's only a few times, as opposed to the whole movie. The downs: Although the retro-aspect is fun, cool, and refreshing, it does become a bit too much at times, and becomes over done and in result becomes self-indulgent. Speaking of which a lot of stuff didn't really fit the atmosphere or realism of the film, plus some things(such as the buried alive thing) didn't really call for what they were doing to the scene, and all in all around the last 20 minutes kind of transcended into a very realistic horror film to almost a monster film. However "House of 1000 Corpses" is one of the better horror films of the decade, and should really be viewed by only horror fans, otherwise normal moviegoers, probably won't dig the films violent, retro, and horror themes.