The daughter of a tourist attraction ghost town is humiliated and murdered by sleazy biker scum. One of the bikers get away, while the other two are sent to an early grave. An employee for Lucus Carlyle finds a glowing crystal with strange and dangerous power..it can send beams which explode buildings and turn animal life into mutated forms which implode after enlarging. Somehow, Lucus is able to resurrect his voluptuous daughter, using her as a beacon to lure future victims into his ghost town which serves as a type of purgatory where ghouls and zombies thrive. Four college students(..including Ron Palillo, Welcome Back Kotter's Arnold Horshack), on vacation find themselves there, inheriting terror.<br /><br />What a mess of a movie which is pretty much a screenplay hurling a bunch of assembled gags together, along with flat, groan-inducing jokes and abysmal performances. The make-up effects aren't that special and the characters' decisions and choices become more than a bit questionable. I guess those who put together the script thought their brand of bizarre ideas and comedy would appeal to a wider audience, I imagine it will to those who enjoy witless, braindead hunks of rancid cheese. It does have a cult following so there is a viable audience who likes a movie like Hellgate, I'm not sure what the appeal is other than Horshack headlining a movie(..has there ever been a more dweeby hero?). I have no idea why Lucus carries a grudge against all outsiders when three punk bikers were the ones solely responsible for the death of his girl. I will say that Abigail Wolcott, as Josie, Lucus' daughter, is quite a tasty dish, very appealing in a night gown summoning Palillo to become her undead lover for all eternity. You have a gold fish and turtle hit by a beam of light from the crystal, turning into grotesque monsters before exploding all over the place. Palillo and pal Evan J Klisser(Chuck)having the viewer to endure a "a$$hole" joke that is dead on arrival. Palillo naked(..the horror, the horror). Petrea Curran(..as Pam, Palillo's love interest)always begrudging her boyfriend when he talks about Josie, pouting but nevertheless returning to his side. A burlesque dance featuring ghouls. A rope strangling causing blood to squirt from all the orifices of a victim. A turtle attacking Lucus' face. Slow motion assault sequences(..even when they are not required). The remaining biker sharpening his tools and never getting to use them. And, last but not least, Palillo's Matt, despite what he had previously seen when alone in Lucus' ghost town, decides to convince his pals to return there. Isn't it amazing that the crystal laser beam can blast through windows, yet reflect from Matt's rear-view mirror. You enter in, beware. You have been warned.