HELLGATE is one of the few films that defy a proper synopsis. There are so many strange goings-on that I really have to wonder how much acid must've been taken by everyone involved in conceiving this film to actually bring it to life. Short of giving a play- by-play that would take three pages to fully explain the plot of this super strange film-I'll try to sum up the very basics of the storyline as simply as possible:   <br /><br />The plot surrounds four friends who try to solve the mystery surrounding a local ghost- story about a resurrected dead girl who was originally killed by a biker-gang in a ghost- town called (appropriately enough...) Hellgate; a glowing blue crystal that can melt, mutate, or bring things back to life; and the bizarro, zombie-like residents of Hellgate itself...<br /><br />Understand that the above is the barest-bones (so to speak...) outline of the basic plot of this uber-weird film. That said-i'm sorta surprised at all the extremely negative reviews of this one. Granted-it's definitely not a 'good' film by any means. The acting is mostly laughable, the majority of the special FX are pretty weak, and the plot is very strange to say the least.  But despite-or possibly because of these facts-I found HELLGATE to be oddly enjoyable. As weird as the storyline is, it does make sense in the overall context of the film. The silly dialogue and goofy acting fit the tone, and the FX-though ranging from ridiculous to mediocre-are effective enough for this type of B-movie oddity. There's a few decent titty-shots from a couple of the attractive female leads as well which doesn't hurt things either-especially from the resurrected-ghost-girl who's pretty f!ckin smokin'. Not much to speak of in the way of gore-but there's a bit of the red-stuff thrown around.   <br /><br />For those that hate HELLGATE-I guess I can't blame 'em-but I can't see how anyone that can enjoy a bit of B-grade popcorn schlock wouldn't at least be entertained by this one. My copy of HELLGATE is on a stand-alone disc-but I understand that there's a double-feature version that has this and THE PIT on it. Personally, I also enjoyed THE PIT quite a bit (perhaps also against popular opinion...)and definitely feel that THE PIT is the stronger of the two-so if you can find the double-disc for cheap and enjoy campy films-I'd recommend picking it up. 7/10 