Days of yore, the streets of Paris, order and mess, people and buildings, cars and traffic, and... a middle aged man that wants to tell us a story, partly humorous, partly sad one: a love story...<br /><br />The movie begins in a pretty strange way, particularly when we consider the year it was made in. It seems to be too messy, without any order, beginning so much in the middle. Nevertheless, the opening 5-10 minutes explain what the action is going at. We soon realize that it is the main hero who speaks to us and attempts to tell us something that means much to him.<br /><br />Yes, that is what MONPTI will leave in your memory most. It is a beautiful, innocent STORY about genuine love of two poor young people who meet by chance and fall in love. Monpti (Horst Buchholz) is a young man who makes a living painting pictures and selling them in Paris. He is lost, lonely, confused in many situations but...happiness comes to him through a young girl Anne Claire (Romy Schneider) whom he once meets in a park and with whom he falls in love. She is very young, beautiful, innocent but there is one problem about her which Monpti does not see: all she tells him is an illusive lie about her alleged chauffeur, wealthy family and engagement. Yet, how straightforward, how naive these lies are! She lives in the fantasy of wealth and feels good about it or at least more comfortable. However, their youthful love and joy comparable to kissing three oranges is contrasted with another couple who are considerably older and who live in luxury comparable to cold elegance and restrained emotions. This overly rich couple is there for some purpose, as the narrator tells us...<br /><br />The movie's another advantage, except for the aforementioned story, are its many humorous moments. Although MONPTI is rather sad in its content and sometimes even melancholic, it is filled with wonderful humor that will appeal to various viewers. I loved the scene in a luxurious restaurant where Monpti is so confused how to behave, how to eat being so close to "flames of fire"... The whole sequence with a little duck, Napoleon, is also very amusing. The duck is simply all he (Monpti) has, except for love, that he can offer Anne Claire - lovely little Napoleon lost in such a hilarious situation. Considering humor, I should also mention Monpti and Anne Claire's first meeting in the park: "Did I really say that?" wonders the girl and the boy takes everything so seriously...<br /><br />Another aspect of the movie is the title melody, a song that Monpti once puts on when Anne Claire visits him. It has melancholy, affection but also a great fun and vitality in some parts and, as a result, fits to the movie really well. The rising and declining tunes indeed express the emotional states of the main heroes: Hungarian in Paris who finds himself in the most unexpected circumstances, a poor girl who dreams to be rich and independent. To this artistic aspect, I have to add the performances of the two: Romy Schneider and Horst Buchholz. They fit as a couple and act convincingly. You just watch and feel as if it's a real young couple head over heels in love.<br /><br />There is one more aspect that I have to mention: the historical one. Keeping in mind that the film was made in 1957 in Herzog studio, it is a purely German movie (just to remind the fact that Herzog is famous for many movies by Ernst Marischka, the director of SISSI). Yet, it puts aside the style of most German and Austrian movies of that time: what we find in MONPTI is the lack of linear plot, there are flashbacks showing dreams and fantasies; there is a mixture of comedy and drama addressing social situations. The contrast put on the couples appears to represent the thought provoking problem of social discrepancies: the rich and the poor and how the two groups regard the world. Dreams refer to the Freudian psychoanalytic theory of man with his desires and, consequently, German cinema partly contains the surreal. The lack of linear action resembles the superiority of character development to story itself. Therefore, the movie is something innovative for 1950s German cinema. It is also another movie that "cured" Romy of the sweet image of Sissi and constituted a "preludium" to her French career (of course not the only film doing that but an important and an early one - 1957).<br /><br />MONPTI is a nice underrated film about simplicity, youthful joy, pure affection that all young people may get through when they only want to. It's also a wonderful insight into a change introduced in cinema. Highly recommended! 7/10