"All My Sons" was on Broadway in 1947 and starred Ed Begley Sr. and Arthur Kennedy. It was a timely play, as stories of wartime corruption had started to surface. Considered anticapitalist, it was suspected of being pro-Communist, so the film version is somewhat modified from the play. It stars Edward G. Robinson, Burt Lancaster, Mady Christians, Howard Duff, Louisa Horton, and Arlene Francis.<br /><br />Edward G. Robinson plays Joe, a man who worked hard to build his factory along with his partner, Herbert Deever. During the war, Deever was put on trial and found guilty of shipping cylinders from the factory that he knew were defective, which, when put into planes, caused the deaths of many war pilots. Though Deever claimed that Joe knew about the shipment, he wasn't believed - Joe was home sick at the time the cylinders were sent. Though the cloud remained over Joe, his business stayed highly successful, and he enjoyed a good place in the community. His son, Chris, however, comes home and announces that he wants to marry Deever's daughter Ann - who had been engaged to Chris' brother Larry, lost during the war and presumed dead. This fact has never been accepted by Chris and Larry's mother (Christians), and Joe is anxious that Chris put aside his idea of marrying Ann. Then Ann's attorney brother calls her from the prison where their father is incarcerated. He believes Joe is guilty and wants to reopen the case.<br /><br />This is a very well acted film that suffers from the miscasting of Edward G. Robinson. Robinson was a magnificent actor but is so obviously guilty, one wonders how he escaped prosecution, especially when one sees the sincerity of Herbert Deever when Chris visits him in prison. The Broadway star, Ed Begley Sr., had a friendly face and a good deal of warmth; Robinson is scrappy, defensive, plus he looks like a thug. It was more of a Spencer Tracy role - it called for a more lovable man that you want to believe, doubts to the contrary. Mady Christians, who was blacklisted, is very sympathetic as Joe's wife.<br /><br />Burt Lancaster insisted on this role; early on, he saw a career as a hunk beginning to take form and fought it. This led to interesting parts for him later on, and he made a great transition to character actor later in life. One can certainly understand the temptation to cast him as a hunk, with his broad shoulders and great build. Lancaster was the whole matinée idol package, right down to his full lips. Apparently the actor knew how handsome he was and was very competitive with other stars of that era, such as Tony Curtis, and like Curtis, he wanted more than romantic leads.<br /><br />Despite its flaws, All My Sons is a strong drama about a son breaking away from his father, the strength of denial, the importance of penance for one's acts and of moving on. A Chinese woman who saw "The Crucible" was certain that Arthur Miller had been in prison in China, so universal was the language of that play. That was Miller's gift, the ability to tell a deeply human story that, politics and social change aside, can still resonate today.