Best known for it's (in)famous 'oh Captain my Captain' sequence, Dead Poets Society's biggest problem is the clichés it invented for the high school movie drama. Today's jaded audiences might smirk at such examples as the shy boy finding the confidence to express himself through the help of a rebellious teacher, or the purity of youthful romance, but to the film's eternal credit, this was fresh ground after a decade of teen sex comedies. Dead Poets Society's teenagers aren't simply lust crazed hormone bags that wander into embarrassing social accidents every fifteen minutes, they're a tad more realistic...for most of the film at least. When the movie ventures into darker territory in the closing quarter it falters, becoming an awkward attempt at manipulating emotions that jars against the promising story told in the beginning.<br /><br />Set in a prestigious school where the upper lips are stiff, the shirts stuffed and the emotions repressed, a class of teenage boys find their new English teacher John Keating (Robin Williams) taking a slight detour from the established curriculum. Encouraging them to think outside the box rather than be restricted by school-approved guidelines, he not only provides them with a full appreciation and love of poetry, but also a fresh mindset that focuses on seizing the day and acting on impulse. Soon, the boys are exploring various avenues of life (one becomes an actor, another pursues a local girl etc...) while their parents look on disapprovingly and the identikit old-fashioned teachers with grey hair and suits start trying to interfere.<br /><br />What is most striking about this whole enterprise is that despite its reputation, there isn't a laugh to be had anywhere. This is not a Robin Williams comedy-drama, it's just a drama and the comedian suits the role perfectly. He is convincingly charismatic and just sentimental enough to stop you from choking on your own vomit, this is Robin Williams the actor, not Robin Williams the clown. However, he's also more of a supporting character, as the chief focus is on the boys (including Robert Sean Leonard and Ethan Hawke in their younger days) and they all play their characters well. Hawke is probably the best, his tearful breakdown in a snow covered field being surprisingly effective, but they all hold their own against the more experienced actors.<br /><br />Shame then about the closing part of the story. With a sudden about turn, the film changes from an account of the individual versus the machine into a teenage suicide yarn all too quickly. This wouldn't be a problem if more time had been taken, but the character involved seems to decide to kill himself with as much ease as the rest of us pick what to have for lunch at work. And while I'm not an expert on teenage depression, I'd like to think it takes more for a young lad to blow his own head off than simply running into life's first obstacle.<br /><br />Dead Poets Society therefore is ultimately a promise that wasn't completely fulfilled as the subtle, intelligent storytelling is blown out of the water by the mishandling of the closing scenes. Consequently, if you're anything like me, you'll spend most of the film trying to guess which kid pops his clogs. It's an enjoyable and involving drama, but as a tear-jerker it fails to move. Williams is excellent as always though and for seventy five percent of the time, Dead Poets Society is a great film.