In a sense, this movie was indeed the celebration of Dead Poets the world over ! <br /><br />Dead Poets Society ! I am guessing a large number of you, like me, were expecting a bunch of spooky irregular events at the mutter of that name. Certainly wasn't to be, it is an inspirational odyssey which will make you pounce upon time and reclaim your life. Carpe Diem and the spirit that John Keating (played by Robin Williams) stands for could easily be misinterpreted by the turn of events in the movie, especially Neils poignant death. To do so is to completely miss the point. The spirit of Carpe Diem lies in the painstaking eventualities which one will have to brave to follow the lead of passion and fervor. <br /><br />Robin Williams plays a professor of poetry, John Keating at the prestigious Welton School, with a management making sufficient hay with the schools continual academic shine. His particularly unorthodox methods of teaching soon make one realize that poetry is not something to do with rhyming words or fantasy lands, but that poetry is in effect a direct means to ones disposition in life, a disposition which would ring success in all avenues. His students soon change their very outlook towards life indulging in activities much to the displeasure of the academically unbending deans of the school. Harvesting discontent against Keating, the deans soon latch on to the one opportunity(or misopportunity I must say) that comes their way in the form of Neils death to see the removal of Keating from the school and the teaching profession. <br /><br />The last few minutes celebrate every individualistic spirit to let you segue into a illusive reality. A young Ethan Hawke playing an even younger student redeems his professors every drop of sweat with "Oh Captain ! My Captain !" . Watch the movie and you will see why ! At least for half an hour after I watched this movie, I managed to drive mans favorite cliché "Life Sucks!" into oblivion. I suppose the students at Welton were not the only ones Professor John Keating inspired.