My review is based on the recent DVD release which is more explicit than the version released in theaters. However, both versions were rather explicit.<br /><br />I am not the most prudish person out there, so don't automatically think I am just a nut based on my summary. Saying the film is 'rather pornographic' is not something I say lightly and I am surprised that none of the other reviewers found this film offensive. But, in addition to having a lot of nudity (some very explicit), most of this nudity was sadistic in nature--showing women getting raped or being tortured. Woman after woman appeared in the film naked or semi-naked and drenched in blood while being brutalized. Now the film was about the evil abuses of the British courts in the late 17th century--so some brutality is inevitable. However, women are simply objects--objects to be brutalized for some voyeuristic fantasy.<br /><br />The film is about a particularly evil judge (Christopher Lee) who takes great delight in sentencing people to death and maltreatment. While he personally doesn't even see the results of his sentences, he knows what sort of atrocities his men do and he is completely indifferent. In addition, late in the film he rapes a comely prisoner--so he's obviously a pretty horrible person. Most of the film consists of either showing women being savaged or showing the 'good guys' in their crusade to rid the country of an incompetent king (James II) as well as his evil minions (including Lee).<br /><br />While this COULD have been a very good film (after all, it's a very important part of British history that's been mostly ignored in movies), it isn't. It is excessive and gross throughout. The actors appear to try their best with the material, but how can actors get noticed when the film has little plot (at times) and lots of drooling sickos molesting and beating women? Even if you are a fan of Christopher Lee (like me), I can't recommend the film. However, if you'd like a similar and not quite as excessive film, try watching Vincent Price's WITCHFINDER GENERAL (1968). While not exactly the same plot (it doesn't mention the transition from James II to William of Orange during the revolution, as it was set about 40 years earlier in history) and also a bit graphic, it is about an evil judge who delights in torture and rape to deal with witches...or pretty much anyone who doesn't do his bidding. And, fortunately, the film doesn't feel like a snuff film--like THE BLOODY JUDGE ("Il trono di fuoco").