The first thing I always tell myself before I watch a low-budget Sci-Fi film is: "be prepared: it's bound to be bad to at least some noticeable degree." Occasionally, there's a film that passes by that is decent enough to be watchable and those films get my praise for their results on such a low budget. However, very few of them get to that level. Most of them are what they are: bad films. And "King of the Lost World" is about as bad as they get.<br /><br />The film is said to be based on Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's novel "The Lost World". I personally have never read it, but based on the previous film adaptations of the story, I can assume that it is nothing like the novel. Pretty much there are only two possible similarities that I see from them. One: a lost world with monsters. Two: the names of some of the characters. Speaking of the characters, they are about as bland and irritating as ever. They are just what I expected, or worse. There's the tough guy wanting to be a leader, his assistant who will take over some point during the film, girls who are just there to scream and be love interests for our leading characters, and characters that are just simply annoying to the other characters and even more so annoying to the audience. The new plot is very dull and it just takes odd twists and turns and adds unnecessary and extremely underdeveloped subplots that lead up to keys in the climax. A climax which we don't really care about.<br /><br />Special effects on the film are even worse that I expected. The CGI graphics used in "King of the Lost World" are absolutely horrendous. We see giant insects and other creatures that look so incredibly cheap, they aren't even laughable. And the way they are incorporated in with the sound effects and the action is inexcusable. I remember this one sequence where Bruce Boxleitner's character shoots his gun at a giant scorpion or something like that. We hear a gunshot that is so quiet it's like a dull thump, and then the scorpion just simply whips away from sight, so quickly it almost just disappears. Other graphics are so horrible they seem to be blurry. That mostly revolves around the so-called "King" of this Lost World, who I assume is the giant gorilla whom we see next to nothing of for a long time. Good thing, too. Because the graphics used on the giant ape made it almost difficult to see what it was. And that's not all that was blurry. Scenes of our bland human characters and oftentimes in scenes so dark that the camera doesn't even focus very well. It's almost as if somebody filmed it in their back yard using a cheap camcorder.<br /><br />Is there anything positive about "King of the Lost World"? Yes. A few things. It had good set designs and a fairly good music score. But that's just about it. Overall, it was just a very bland and mind-numbingly boring excuse for an adventure story. And it's not a patch on the original 1925 version of "The Lost World" or the so-so 1960 version.<br /><br />Bottom line: don't bother with it. You can find better even on a long, dark rainy day.