From the excellent opening to the brilliant and moving end of the series, this is truly astonishing stuff.<br /><br />The anime works on several different levels, on one level its ultra violent, on another level its about abuse, another level its a painful and tragic love triangle, and the most important level its about family.<br /><br />The diclonius are a mutated form of life, they are recognized by a set of horns that look like cat ears, they also possess telekinetic powers through the use of their "vectors", invisible arms that they control with a number and a reach depending on the diclonius. They are considered to be the new race of humanity but also at the same time incredibly dangerous to the human race. Rejected from human world and quarantined where they are subjected to sadistic testing in a research facility in order to protect the human race. One of the subjects known as Lucy who has a hatred for the human race and sadistically kills anyone in the human race without much concern or empathy escapes from the lab in bloody form. After receiving a nasty head trauma in her daring escape she is washed ashore. The day after her escape the story turns to a boy named Kohta, who arrives at Kamakura to meet his cousin Yuka. Kohta is studying at a local university and has been given free rent at an old family owned inn, provided he acts as care taker. After meeting with Yuka they head down to the beach where they find Lucy washed ashore. The head trauma that Lucy received during her escape causes her to develop a split-personality. She awakens incapable to say anything other than "Nyu" she is also completely docile and child like in innocence. This personality is a stark contrast to the cold violent killer that is Lucy. Kohta and Yuka decide to take her in under their care at the inn<br /><br />Meanwhile the research facility that Lucy escaped from dispatch soldiers and even fellow diclonius to hunt down Lucy and bring her to an end. What follows is 13 episodes of some of the most heart breaking tales of lost innocence, abuse, and love that you will ever see in an anime.<br /><br />For all the complaints that this is a dark anime, i would actually like to say that the family theme is really strong in this anime. Most of the characters in it came from broken homes, or in the diclonius cases no homes at all. The family element between Kohta, Yuka, Mayu, Nyu, and Nana is a really strong theme at the end of it. The love and warmth of the family element is very present once you get to the end and it really does make you think about it. This is a dark anime and plays around with a lot of dark material and many themes that are the underbelly of human fabric. Characters are abused both graphically and mentally. But at the end of it the theme isn't so much about a dark ending but more a moral and happier one. I really loved this anime. It has a fantastic look production wise, and just a really enthralling plot that keeps you thinking. The anime does have some humor and some lighter, dare i say ultra cute moments in it that do juxtapose the relatively dark nature of the show. I can't recommend this enough. My only complaint is that the ending while very satisfying, also left me wanting more, i can't help but think maybe this should have been a few episodes longer. The pacing runs perfectly for the main story but their were also a few loose ends that i wanted tied up, maybe i shouldn't complain though as the ending did a great thing and left me thinking about it, or maybe an OVA down the tracks, i would be all for it.<br /><br />Overall this is a stunning piece of Anime on every level, check it out now Grade: A+<br /><br />On a side not, If their is to ever be a live action version of this story, please let Takashi Miike be the one to direct as this is so up his alley