Well at the beginning of the story it is more than just an evil nightmare. But time to time everything has change in it. We truly can watch how all the characters has change they have become more lovely with every episode. Trough the full story a bunch of strong emotions has following every footstep. Not just the anger and the suffer, what Lucy/Nyuu has feeld when she was just a child and then from that moment maybe always, but as she has start to live as Nyuu after the accident at the middle of the first episode, she has became close to a real character. Even time the evil Lucy has come out, but until that we can learn a lot about the character and we can feel too what she has, the whole world in which she lives has become a living world around us, and with every new information what we have learn about her, we really feel that she is just a victim, and really not a brutal serial killer.<br /><br />Indeed it is bad what she deed. But in the last few episodes we can feel that she truly have changed. Well she still kill some of those soldiers, but this time it is a little more than just doing it for fun, I mean by any instinct. She has to protect Kohta, and in the last episode she finally after eight years have meet with him as Lucy herself and not as Nyuu. She has understand what she has done, and she really sorry about it. Of course Kohta cannot forgive those horrible things, but finally Lucy has truly turned out to be a really good character, who finally get close to her love, and have tolled him everything, everything with one kiss, and in that moment we can see again their childhood, when they two have played with each other eight years ago, without "any" troubles.<br /><br />After that we can see how cute Lucy is, and she's crying, and next we see Nana as she going home, but in the same time Lucy has to face with the enemy. Well Kohta sad to never hurt somebody again, so I think when her second horn has broke off too, she lost her vectors, and she has died. But at the end until the credits has running, we've see a person outside the door at the Inn. Kohta was surprised when he saw the big antic clock has working again, on which one Nyuu has worked. The Songbox still plays Lilium, but when it stops playing it, the clock has ringing and the anime has ended, The End. Maybe Lucy was that person outside the door? Maybe she have fixed that clock, but she don't want to bother the others? I think we will never get any answer for these questions.<br /><br />As I have spoked before the anime is full of strong emotions. The greatest emotion which one stand behind everything is the love. Of course this is a really beautiful emotion, but as the anime shows it could make really worse things too. At the end when I saw that Lucy has kiss Kohta I really thought that they could be with each other forever, and when I saw that her second horn has broke off too, my heart has nearly broke too. For the last episode these characters have became my friends and I was nearly cry at the whole night, and I really did, yes. There love cannot be fulfilled, but Lucy's heart truly could get some rest, and each other was really happy in that moment when they have kissed each other, much more happy than everyone could ever be. And at the end that beautiful smile at Lucy's face, it truly looked like she has always waited for that day to come, but that day is much more sad maybe, than any other days before.