A village girl Pushpa is turned away by her in-laws and her own family. A friend sells her to a brothel where she is frequented by Anand. Anand is married but he finds peace with Pushpa. As the fate has it Pushpa's relative Sharma moves in the same locality as Pushpa. She tries to find some love from the family but is too contaminated for a 'respected' society now. The film is broadly about how every human-being long for 'love' and still how rare it is to be loved. <br /><br />This movie is divine. I have no other word for it. It's a fantastic combination of concept, story line, execution and acting. I see this film in the same league as 'Ram Teri Ganga Maili' because the woes of the protagonist are the same still it is completely different. RTGM is more a socio-political statement while this film works at a very personal level. Pushpa and her longing for love is just too heart breaking. Everyone she loves disappear at some point or the other. In her later years she takes care of her dying husband. The paradox of the situation is very interesting because through out the film you see young Pushpa as a prostitute. The way Shakti Samantha has handled the death of her husband scene is brilliant. She goes to the river with a very clean and expressionless face; she uses a small rock and just gets rid of the bangles. Nandu is the high point of the film. Pushpa cannot have a family and so she tries to find a son in Nandu who is ill-treated by his step mom. Pushpa shares the pain of longing for a son with Anand who is supposed to be her lover but obviously they can't marry and have children. The character of Anand is also brilliant as he is not just a neutral character.<br /><br />Rajesh Khanna is brilliant in this film but it's a Sharmila Tagore film. She has given an Oscar performance. Rajesh Khanna has also given an Oscar performance. Must mention the name of the genius because of who this film is sure to go down in the history of Indian Cinema. Mr. Rahul Deb Burman. Amar-Prem is unarguably the best Indian soundtrack ever recorded. Kishore Kumar in his prime, opening credits by SD Burman and poignant poetry by Anand Bakshi. I feel like writing about 'THE' KK but that would be jazz. Of course we all know how much we miss him everyday. Shakti Samantha has created a masterpiece. A must watch. 10/10.