Where do you start? How about the warped message this film is sending out to children who's families genuinely have money issues? I almost choked on my own disgust when Troy complained that he was fed up of seeing all the rich people at the Country Club while his parents were 'scraping for pennies'. With a house the size of his I doubt they're scraping for anything. Secondly, isn't it wonderfully convenient that they all managed to get pretty good jobs with no previous work experience and that they all managed to secure employment on their first attempt, at the same place, at the same time. Apart from being the luckiest group of 'teenagers' in the world, they are all the most ungrateful group of spoilt brats I've ever witnessed. The jobs they secured aren't given away to teenagers with no employment record and you don't become an assistant chef because you made a Crème Brule and some cookies then complain about it.<br /><br />Apart from those two minor points that really, really grated on me, the rest of the film is truly dire. I would happily watch High School Muscial (which, I am shamed to admit, made me laugh a little) every day for a week rather than sit through this trash again. The pointless, meandering plot-line, the dreadful, dreadful songs and the nauseating tones of Vanessa Hudgens were all too much for me. I stayed true to my word and sat through the whole thing, but not before my soul was permanently tainted. You may think I'm exaggerating, and you might be right, but a movie hasn't dragged like this since the Forty Year Old Virgin. Mercifully, I didn't have to pay for this one, but I did have to waste electricity on it.<br /><br />There are many, many bad points to be raised about this poor excuse for a film, and I think Nastarinvonjacobis has made them quite eloquently. Oh, and before I forget, who in the world has a portrait photograph of themselves in their basketball gear in their own room? A dreadful film, even by Disney Channel's standards, I don't recommend this film to anyone, unless you're playing a drinking game to take a shot every time something in this film annoys you (not recommended for those who don't want to get seriously drunk)