I rented "After the Sunset" because it looked like a fun flick. If you delete Woody Harrelson from the cast, you get a pretty reliable threesome headed by former 007 Peirce Brosnan and rounded out with sexy Selma Hayek and the ever wonderful Don Cheadle. "After the Sunset" is about ex-jewel thief Max (Brosnan) and his lover, Lola (Hayek) who retire to the Bahamas after being unbeaten in all of their heists. However, FBI Agent Stan Lloyd (Harrelson), who Max and Lola harassed on several occasions during their career, won't believe that the two unbeatable master criminals are done - so he finds them out in the Bahamas and tempts Max with the last Napolean diamond which is on a cruise ship docking in the local bay. Max and Lola say no, but Max is further tempted when suave gangster Henri Moore (Cheadle) offers Max an offer he can't refuse. Lola is adamantly against it but poor Max is pathetically attracted. Meanwhile, Max and Stan become friends.<br /><br />This movie is horrible. Brett Ratner does the WORST job directing and the script is really lame with only one or two really memorable lines that made you laugh. The rest of the time, you are just so embarrassed for these actors that you want to shake them and say, "WHY DID YOU DO THIS MOVIE?!?!?!?!" Selma Hayek puts on all her sexual charms for the role of Lola and would have probably done really well if she had actually had a really well written role. Peirce Brosnan, well, we miss him as 007. And who casts Woody Harrelson?! He is what makes this movie so bad. Woody, do us all a favor and never act again, k? The only person in the movie who does a good job acting is Don Cheadle who has probably never done a bad movie in his life. But his role in the film is so small that he is unable to really make up for the bad jobs that some of the other actors did. Plus, the climatic scene where (sorry to ruin this) Max steals the diamond is probably only 3 minutes long and looks like they did it in a rush at the end of filming.<br /><br />All in all, don't see this movie. It is LAME and a total waste of your time.