WARNING MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS!! I caught the review of this film in a local street rag. And I am really glad I did. This is really a good film and the two main guys have done a jam-up job of acting. Leonardo Sbaraglia, (Nene) , Wild Tango, Wild Horses, and Eduardo Noreiga (ll) ( Angel) , The Devil's Backbone, Abre los ojos, Thesis. Are known as 'the twins' , but they are not brothers, they are lover's and they are for hire robbers. The way they look at each other and the way they care for each other is very moving. The plot is to rob some guys in a car making a big delivery of cash. Its a simple plan and was to be very easy to pull off...but the most simple of plans can come to a violent end. There is a scuffle and a shot and Angel is hit in the upper chest, this infuriates Nene and he shoots some policemen. They make their escape, and Nene is doing all he can for Angel.<br /><br />Nene has to get the bullet out of Angle and there is a scene of him digging for the bullet and Angel screaming in agony, really a great scene and you will think it will never end. Nene kisses Angle and holds him until he sleeps.<br /><br />They must leave Argentina. So they hire a boat to take them to Uruquay where they are to hole-up until the heat is off them. But things start to unravel as the are going stir-crazy. Angel is hearing voices and becomes religious and wont let Nene caress him. Nene is beside himself and goes into town and has sex with another guy in a tea room and also with a women he meets at the fair. Angel is still fighting his demons and taking drugs. Tries to commit suicide. Nene helps him thru this and is quite shaken. Angel lives but his demons are still with him. <br /><br />Later Angel finds out about the women Nene is bedding with and he is very hurt and grabs Nene's face and makes him look at him. Angel is hurt and Nene is even more remorse for having cheated on his lover. The police have found out about their hideaway and they move into the girlfriends apt. She tells Angel that she and Nene are going away together. There is a scene between Nene and the women and she says, 'you have to choose me or him.' The next scene is in the hallway Giselle is screaming at Nene ,"You fag, you fag". Nene tells her to go as she might get hurt as the police will come. Giselle leaves and tells the police where they are and a very intense battle rages on for a long time. At one point after a barrage of firing and shouting, Nene and Angel are on the floor, (dead silence) their heads together laying flat, and Angel says,'I don't hear them,' Nene asks 'hear what' and Angel says, 'the voices, there gone ! They look fondly at each other and joke about how they turn each other on and its a bad time to want each other.<br /><br />This film will not be for all... but if you want to see some great acting and a caring no bars held male relationship, then you must run to see it. Out on DVD Oct 1, 2002 . I give this a 9/10 ciao yaaah69