2 combat divers, send to blow up a ship with time bombs, accompanied by a back up team posing as a pseudo couple ? Rather watch "The Rainbow Warrior Conspiracy" from 1989. Illegal arms-for-diamond-trade ? Done several times before ! American agents clearly informed about what the "Frenchies" are up to (Echelon ? Moles ?...)… Déjà vu ! Someone framed by 150 gr. of heroin hidden in his or her luggage ? How many times has this not been seen before ? Also used in 20, 30 other movies: the main character gets kidnapped by the "opposition", but somehow miraculously manages to cause a traffic accident, after which of course he's the only survivor… I'm not even mentioning the somewhat unbelievable sideplot of Brisseau finding extremely quickly the professional (???) killer who shot one of the combat divers, and making quickly in between a trip to Spain to kill her. Strangely enough however, even if Schoendoerffer really used all the wrong ingredients to make his spy flick, this isn't a bad movie at all. Not because of the plot nor because of clever dialogs about international security or about the loneliness or the dangers involved with the spy business. In contradiction with some other comments, I didn't found Agents Secrets a particularly good psychology study about secret agents… So don't expect a Simenon-like experience, with a relatively bleak plot as an excuse to paint vivid psychological portraits. There aren't even beautiful locations, superb cars or –there needs to be something for everyone- breathtaking bathing beauties à la Bond. So, what is it, that makes me not calling it a "bad movie" ? The quick pace, the interesting camera movements for sure…. But mainly because of the excellent cast, with exception of the cliché looking villains who kill a French agent in the strong first minutes of the movie: they look like the stereotype gang members of Pablo Escobar. Maybe the film would have been much stronger, if the killers were not known, if there was more of an invisible threat looming all the time over the shoulders of the French secret agents team. Indeed, a 7/10 seems to be an honest score.