It's not often that you come across a film in which, for the first eleven minutes, the only words spoken are: 'On the left!' Couple that with an opening sequence that begins on the dark side of the moon, slowly zooming down to earth – almost like a Google Earth video -- and to a ferry, somewhere in the Mediterranean Sea, to finally stop upon a man's eyes at extreme close-up. And, all done with only two almost seamless dissolves between the computer wizardry and the real McCoy... And all the time, the pulsating sound track from Bruno Coulais hits you almost as forcibly as three assassins forcibly and gruesomely dispatch the hapless agent returning to base...<br /><br />Such is the combination of cinematic and directorial skills as evidenced by the director, Frederic Schoendoerffer and cinematography by Jean-Pierre Sauvaire. Add to that the consummate acting by the likes of Vincent Cassel -- unforgettable in La Haine (1992) – and Monica Belluci, probably best known to US audiences in The Passion of Christ (2004), and you have a cinematic thriller treat that the French do oh-so-well and oh-so-often.<br /><br />Take a team of five agents from an unspecified secret French agency, add a notorious gun-runner from Russia, mix with the intrigue and settings in and around Casablanca, in Morocco, stir it all up with CIA mercenaries trying to spoil the fun, and top it all off with betrayal in the midst of the French team and you have 109 minutes of dirty dealings, and some break-neck action that might just leave you breathless. Some of the stunts were simply…stunning; in fact, I just had to re-view – again and again – the last car chase with the most spectacular head-on impact I've yet seen. But then, I'm a sucker for a good car chase ever since I saw Bullit (1968). What! You haven't seen Bullit yet...? Tsk, tsk...<br /><br />The plot is straightforward and the director uses visuals to show most of it with a bare minimum of dialog. It is, however, a relatively complex story, with a number of sub-plots: the French agent who wants to quit, and who pays the price for trying; the degree of collusion between government and dirty business; the nature of the arms trade and why it continues. But, hey, we all know that it's a dirty world, and there are dirty people in it, always ready to do their bit for...for...oh, yeah, democracy.<br /><br />To some extent, I was let down by the final scenes. On reflection, however, it was appropriate, if a bit flat – especially after all that blazing action. You be the judge when you see it.