I saw this film because of monica and vincent to be honest. And because Bruno Coulais had done the music. The trailer seemed pretty good, and I needed something strong that day. It was either this or taking lives. Please notice I had read imdb reviews that warned about the nature of this film : not good at all. But, it was monica and vincent and bruno... So I said what the heck.<br /><br />(***minor spoilers)<br /><br />The movie begins with a couple of nice shots. Then the story unfolds. We meet the agents and get to action. And here's problem No.1 : how and where did those two get to meet each other, how was the contact made.. We watch them separately and then bang! on the plane. I was left kinda blank on that. The same goes and in that scene where she has to kill that woman in the prison. One minute she's in and the next she drops the pill and out she goes. But then again, some might say whats there to show. Anyway... And then to the action. Or to be exact, more action less talk. That seemed to be the director's motto. Which was good, I assume. It was something you don't see in spy films, so I appreciated it. At first. Because later it gets just a bit annoying. What I appreciated even more was the fact that there were no shootings and explosions every 10 minutes. And here's problem No.2 : you can't follow a "minimal" structure of showing things and action and then take the main character alive out of a blaster car accident. You just can't! Even though I liked the way it was shown, silence while car on air, and then crash! boom! bang!, the way it turned out, the hero with just some scratches, it reminded a lot of that hollywood staff. And finally, problem No.3 was monica's acting. I don't know what is wrong, I actually adore that woman, but here... I don't know maybe she was tired from the "passion", she seemed completely out of the movie. She had the exact same look on her (beautiful) face in the entire movie. Why?<br /><br />I don't want to admit that I have get used to hollywood stuff and that I am not in place to appreciate something different, because I watch more "different" movies than Hollywood movies. But when different gets so out of line...I wouldn't say it is a spy thriller, because I don't think it is. Also, this film gave me a hard time, because never before had I consider rating a movie below 5. I added a "point" for each 'thing' I liked : the guy who played the contact man, vincent and monica and some nice shots. I think you all know how much is 1+1+1.