College students, Jenny(Kathrine Baumann)and Robert(Peter Hooten)decide to drive up to a certain mountainous spot where their school chum, Michael(Robert Englund, in one his first movie roles), went to live in nature away from the civilized world. A love blossoming between them, Jenny and Robert, through a rigorous journey to find it, come across Michael's humble abode and rest for awhile. While skinny-dipping in the river nearby, they are met by a couple of nutty backwoods hoodlums, Levon(James Keach, Mr. Jane Seymore;"Moving Violations" and "Wildcats") and Danker(David Pritchard)who later proceed to attack them into the night. Jenny is sexually molested and slapped around a bit while Robert watched helplessly with a knife to his throat before being knocked unconscious. Emotionally devastated by her attack, Michael finally arrives with Robert agonizing and full of rage. This will eventually lead to the eventual confrontation between the boys and Robert as Michael attempts to console Jenny, whose having a hard time coping with her mistreatment.<br /><br />Insufferably lame, incredibly corny backwoods thriller(..absent the thrills)has college kids, removed from the comfort of home, thrust into a traumatizing situation regarding menacing backwoods weirdos. The film's supposed key rape sequence is rather tame and doesn't really feature a lot of sexual violence towards the victim, and it happens relatively quickly. The director pulls his punches and the the proceeding scenes afterward also lack any real bite. The villains arrive rather late and aren't even given much time on screen, their threat unable to really nourish in our minds. Viewers like me wanting to see an early performance by Robert Englund will also be truly disappointed as he doesn't arrive into the film until it's almost over, as Michael, his role is of comforting friend, trying to snap Jenny from her emotional turmoil. Thankfully for horror fans, Englund would find his niche as a menacing killer(..often a colorful fiend of some sort), not some gentle soul comforting victims, but, instead, causing the conflicts which terrorize innocents. Keach and Pritchard could've been memorable villains if they'd been given more time on screen, but they remain in the background because this film merely uses them sparingly as a dramatic device. The film is more of a drama about love and the trials facing someone corrupted, not the Deliverance type of terror tale this should've been. The premise shows lots of potential, but much of the film's running time focuses on our couple coming together thanks to a break up regarding Jenny and popular college boyfriend Marshall(Ric Carrott), their travel to Michael's finding his hideaway ,and falling for each other ..nearly 40 minutes or so in, one wonders if this is a thriller at all. The director spends ample time displaying the picturesque setting of the mountainous wilderness with Robert and Jenny having a great time in the process. When the "thriller elements" come into the film, they are given little precious time, leaving those of us, seeking something more worthwhile, wanting. I wouldn't say this is a terrible movie, just not the one marketed to those who sit down to actually watch a thriller. Even the brawl at the end between Robert and scar-faced Levon, which should at least make an impact, leaves much to be desired. The film's music tested my threshold but I made it through somehow. This film deserves a different title than the one it currently has...