Edgewood's "Ice Queen" is an unusual sort of horror, in terms of premise, villain and setting, but combined with an interesting and attractive cast, make for a very cool (excuse the pun) film. Without giving too much away, a prehistoric woman is discovered, and brought back to life, except she is a seemingly mindless creature bent on destruction, who just happens to crash land with the doctor who knows all about her in a small ski-resort town, which becomes buried in an avalanche at the wrong time. Essentially, one could label this in the "monster" sub-genre of horror.<br /><br />However, what sets it aside from many other monster films is a terrific cast, most all rather inexperienced actors, but they portray their characters well, and certainly as characters that you can actually care for. They are never boring, and you know a lot about them. They have issues going on in their lives, which often come to blows during their fight for their lives both against the avalanche and the monster, dubbed appropriately the Ice Queen.<br /><br />Harmon Walsh is an absolute hottie, but he's also a terrific actor making his debut here as Johnny, the hero who finds himself with a big problem (aside from the Ice Queen) when he gets drunk and sleeps with another girl, Elaine, leaving his girlfriend, Tori, rather upset. But Johnny is also very smart, and keeps his head under the pressure that he and his friends find themselves in. Noele Reno plays Tori, rather tame compared to the other vibrant characters, but she gives a good performance. Jennifer Hill on the other hand, who plays Elaine, gives a sassy performance, she's fun and has great hair. In fact, at times you may wonder if Johnny will actually leave Tori for Elaine. Rounding out the cast are Daniel Hall Kuhn as the scientist who knows all about the Ice Queen, he gives a "interesting" performance in more ways than one (look out for his mating ritual with the Ice Queen, eek!), Tara Walden is excellent as the bossy Audrey whose fight with the Ice Queen is great, and both Peter Wyndorf and Demone Gore are very good as Johnny's friends Devlin and Jessie. Ami Chorlton doesn't get to say much as the Ice Queen, and due to all the make up she wears is unrecognisable.<br /><br />With most horrors you can easily predict who is going to survive, unfortunately that is also the case here, for there is such a great group of people that one might find themselves hoping that they all survive. Obviously made on a low-budget, it certainly shows, but that is nearly a given with these sorts of films. However, "Ice Queen" is still a quality film with a different feel to it than other similar monster horrors, with a great cast and some very cool moments (pun intended).