A resort is destroyed by an avalanche caused by a downed air craft carrying a female creature from the Ice Age(..hence her official title)who destroyed the pilot while a scientist miraculously survives. The crew, in charge of the resort, are pursued by the she-beast who can freeze humans from the inside out burying her hand into the bellies of the victims. The scientist wishes to keep her from harm but the Ice Queen can not be contained.<br /><br />Cheap sets, poor CGI, lame characters, and tepid performances in this worthless creature feature. There's some moderate gore and lame love triangle sub-plot that goes nowhere. Ami Chorlton is buried under hideous make-up, sharp finger nails and fangs, green skin with yellow eye contacts.<br /><br />Harmon Walsh is Johnny, who works under drill sergeant Audrey(..she pretty much orders him around like one, although the hapless guy doesn't do himself any favors)exploding snow which collects on hills. His pals Devlin and Jessie(Peter Wyndorf and Demone Gore)are his co-workers(..which means, they are mincemeat for Ice Queen). As Audrey, Walden is stuck with seriously bogus wise-cracks which are groan-inducing, particularly when she challenges Ice Queen to combat. Daniel Hall Kuhn is the scientist who gets all excited and enthusiastic when discussing his specimen..he's the kind of tool who attempts to thwart our heroes' mission to kill the bitch, and save themselves. Johnny is currently dating Tori(Noelle Reno), a member of the resort staff. Johnny was making out with a big-breasted bimbo, Elaine(Jennifer Hill), not realizing that she would be interviewing for a job at the resort. These complications soon mean little as they focus on ridding themselves of Ice Queen and finding help. John Romeo is rotund Ed, the bartender of the resort's bar. Ed is a reformed alcoholic who fights off the urge to chug-a-lug seeing that the resort is in shambles and the small number of guests / vehicles were buried under snow.<br /><br />I don't know what was up with Chorlton's stride as she seeks fresh victims, but she has a nice figure, even under that costume and grotesque mask. The avalanche and initial destruction it causes is obvious, dismal CGI. Hill's big jugs and excruciating acting might be worth sitting through this disaster, but I doubt it.