I saw this as a child as loved it. It is a great story but it does have some continuity problems: 1. Monk and Lt. start off going to Quincy's with three horses. One with empty saddle. Who's it for? Quincy? 2. Go cross country (on map) to a creek, then tie up the horses and leave them. 3. Go up the creek to Quincy's Chickee, leaving the horses. 4. Monk hoots for Quincy and says "that'll bring him out", whereas cutaway scene shows Cooper already emerging from bush 5. Next scene shows Cooper coming out like he's just heard the guide. 6. The eagles are great, but instead of the two mentioned, the last shot shows a third one coming down for his "treat". 7. Cooper and party leave for Taylor's HQ which is northeast of where they left the horses. They arrive at HQ on horses. Where's they get them since they left the original three tied up miles south of there? 8. Monk, the old trapper, wears a totally incongruous buckskin outfit. Can you imagine that and a coonskin hat in Florida's heat? 9. The uniforms are OK, if a little to "western". Taylor and the other officers are correctly dressed for the period. Later the brigade soldiers at the end are totally dressed correctly for the period. 10. Rifled muskets are not correct for the period. This is 1840, as stated, but the US Army did not start using percussion cap rifled muskets until 1842 and even these then were conversions of existing flintlocks, not the nice post-Civil war carbines shown, which, by the way, were issued to cavalry, not infantry. 11. The revolvers Cooper and everyone else uses are 1870s era Colts with brass cartridges not the earlier era ones with paper cartridges and caps. At least they could have used 1844 model Colts. 12. At the arsenal in the fort they discover "European" muskets. Well, golleee! These are Spanish men! 13. The Seminoles look great even though they did not look like that in 1840. The headdress and paint are correct. 14. Did you ever notice how the Seminoles are always running after the expedition, which is walking, but never seem to quite catch up? 15. The Spanish plantation owner seems to disappear about halfway through the movie. 16. The swamp grass fire is a little weak. The Seminoles could have easily jumped through the gaps shown. 17. In the "gators" scene, you can see the rope pulling the fake alligator along! 18. After falling into and coming out of walking through the swamp, Marie Alden's dress and cloths are not wet at all!<br /><br />In spite of all this it is a great story and well-acted by everyone. The drill the soldiers do is very well done unlike most Hollywood epics.