I cannot judge it but Bette Midler has appeared in about six movies where her performances were all excellent. These include THE ROSE, THE FIRST WIVES CLUB, RUTHLESS PEOPLE, BEACHES, and this film. It can safely be said that she is more than just a great singer and entertainer, but (when given the right material) she is one hell of an actress in comedy or drama. Although she got nominated for an Oscar for THE ROSE, and she has many fans for her performance in BEACHES, I suspect her performance in FOR THE BOYS may be her best dramatic role.<br /><br />She plays Dixie Leonard, a New York based singer, whose husband is in the armed forces in World War I. She lives with her son Danny in the city. Her uncle, Art Silver (George Segal), gets a notable entertainer Eddie Sparks (James Caan) to hire her for his UFO show. Dixie is a success, but from the beginning she and Sparks have one conflict or another between them. Eddie is pretty ambitious and determined to succeed, and so is Dixie, but Eddie can be more ruthless to do so - even to cutting his losses at the expense of other people. Yet Eddie can show a better side (although one that suggests opportunism again and again). During the first UFO tour he arranges Dixie to see her husband again after nearly two years. But he makes sure that the scene is photographed and filmed for propaganda and career reasons. After the death of Dixie's husband, Eddie becomes close to Dixie's son Danny. However, he teaches Danny to have contempt for school, and he puts patriotic ideas into the boy's head - leading to Danny going into the military. Danny (Christopher Rydell) is a Captain at the time of the Vietnam War. He too is killed during a war (in front of his mother, on a well televised U.F.O tour).<br /><br />The film actually is told in flashback by Dixie, as she is being asked to appear at a special televised ceremony where she and Eddie are being awarded medals by the U.S. Government. She is a lonely, bitter woman, and she loathes the very thought of the program. Eddie is going to get a medal too. Will she go to confront Eddie after all these years? Will Eddie finally admit how he felt about the loss of Danny.<br /><br />The film is quite well done, capturing the spirit of the UFO shows in wartime London (1944), wartime Korea (1952); and wartime Vietnam (1967) although one song is slightly anachronistic. It also gives us glances at the high water mark of radio programing in the late 1940s (before television began to impact upon it). Finally there is a look at the effect of the McCarthy period, as it effects Segal and Midler. The three principals give first rate performances, Middler best in the scene when her son dies, and Caan earlier, when he witnesses the death of a boy soldier in Korea (his first witnessing of such a tragedy in a war). Caan literally looks like he has suffered shell shock as a result. As for Segal, watch his "bitter Santa Claus" scene, where he gives out Christmas gifts while swallowing a tremendous amount of bile and anger.