In defense of this show its not as good as Nick Shows like Doug, Rugrats, Rocko, etc. But it was one of the last good Nicktoons before Nickoldeon ruined there self's. This show ran from 1998-2004. I remember when this show first game on back in 1998 with the Burgerking toys that they had for that month with the Kids Meal back then. This show premiered on a Sunday night and the first episode was where they let Debbie drive and she put her bubble gum(Debbie was always chewing bubble gum anyone remember that episode where she let one get huge and then it popped on her face and got somewhat in her hair? no not the one where Donnie popped one in her hair but i forget where the setting was in the one were she blew the big bubble when it popped on her face) under the Accerlator pedal and they RV got stuck. Well the Characters in this show was Eliza the main character who could speak to all Animals. Her monkey friend Darwin, her Sister Debbie, her Mom(Can't remember the name) and her Nigel voiced by Tim Curry and her Apodpted brother Donnie. Also there swarm enemies can't remember the name but i remember one had an eye patch and a wooden leg. This is another Nicktoon show that i liked that i can remember from the production line. I remember the episode with the oil tanker leak and Eliza tried to help the animals where she got trapped by the fire. How bout the episode where they were attacked by sharks and RV started sinking. Or the one Eliza was blamed for upsetting the Humpback Whales. Then there was the one where Eliza was tricked by a leopard or Cheata to help them but she then almost ended up getting killed. Then there was the T.V. movie which i still remember till this day clearly because one scene with the Forrest fire reminded me of the Land Before Time III. The Orgin of Donnie where they return to were Donnie came from and then found out his parents had died from Poachers =[. But there was a scene in it where a Forrest fire started and it reminded me of the scene in The Land Before Time III where they had to escape the great valley because of a Forrest Fire. Now i did see the Movie and i can say the movie was really a good Movie. The Crossover between this and Rugrats was just an alright movie. This show was a really good nick show and like i said earlier it ran from 1998-2004. I saw up till 2002 and i don't remember any new episodes after that. This show did air on Nicktoonss TV like other Classic Nicktoons but hasn't been on there in a couple of years. I Honestly believe this show was canceled along with Hey Arnold And THe Rugrats to let Spongebob become bigger. This week is sponge bobs 10th anniversary. Spongebob is nothing compared to these nicktoons.<br /><br />Well this show has yet to be released on DVD but since that Deal between Nickoldeon and Amazon.com to release old Nickshows i think this show has a chance of becoming released on DVD. This was good shows and one of the last good ones. Its not the last Great one because it never lived up to the standards of the other Nicktoons. Eitherway There is hope for this being released on DVD. This is a good nicktoon from the 90s.