"I want you to listen to me, okay. Because I'm asking you a favor, Chrissy. I'm standing in front of you in the same suit that I'm wearing to my father's funeral and I'm asking you a favor. In 16 hours I need to land at LAX, and I need that coffin to clear customs because there's going to be a hearse waiting there. And I need that hearse to take me and that coffin to a cemetery. Why? Why, Chrissy, can't I just bring him to a funeral home and make all the arrangements? Why can't I really take my time with it? Because I need it to be done. I need it to be over. I just -- I need to bury my father." <br /><br />"White Rabbit" is an episode best remembered for its iconic speeches: one flashback, one in present, both by Jack, and both revisited on the show from other perspectives. His flashback speech is important in understanding Jack and his "just do it" and "move on as quickly as possible" philosophies. Later in the series we frequently see instances of Jack attempting to run from his past, although it sometimes consumes him.<br /><br />Jack's on-island speech is less character-specific though; it can be applied to everyone. All the show's characters have varying degrees of willingness to live together, and some of them, including Jack, appear to go for and against that moral at different times. Regardless, it's that idea that unites the camp, and once they do get torn apart, they seem far more likely to die alone. But it speaks wonders for Jack himself too. Locke's words and Jack's wild goose chase ultimately lead him to accept his role as leader with complete confidence.<br /><br />The episode has more to be remembered for than these two speeches though. It is an important episode historically as we are introduced to the character of Christian Shephard (unless you count the brief setup in Walkabout), in his first of a long line of seemingly more and more important appearances on the show. We also have our first science/faith talk between Jack and Locke, although it's less of an argument, and more of Jack doubting Locke's explanation of what's happening to him. Appropriately enough, island junkie Locke is the first to note the bizarreness of where they are, taking Charlie's "Where are we?" just one step further, while all the while referring to their situation as undoubtedly a positive thing as only Locke would: "This place is different. It's special. The others don't want to talk about it because it scares them. But we all know it. We all feel it." Jack opposes Locke's stance for a long time in later seasons, but eventually Jack realizes that this conversation was where he should've started listening to Locke.<br /><br />The episode is likable on most levels. John Terry nails Christian Shephard's first scene of dialogue in flashbacks, creating a character we just want to see more of instantly, and it turns out we don't have to wait too long. Terry O'Quinn's first of many mythical monologues is well-delivered and memorable. Matthew Fox is a strong lead, and nails both his speeches, which of course only seal the already strong episode. The subplot is strong, and the identity of the eventual water culprit is unpredictable. Furthermore, as was always season 1's strength, it brilliantly sets up the upcoming episode without taking away from the current one. Sun thanks Jin for getting her water, and he replies "That's what husbands do," although up til then, we hadn't seen Jin as a particularly desirable husband, and the next episode, "House of the Rising Sun", gives a closer look at Sun's perspective of how he has been on and off the island.<br /><br />But this is Jack's episode, and his island story and his flashback story each feature a failure and a chase. Both stories open with Jack failing to save someone and having difficulty coping. In the flashback, Jack's father tells him he doesn't have what it takes to cope with being a hero, while on the island, Boone more or less assumes the same out loud.<br /><br />In both stories, he is chasing his father, and although he only catches him in the flashback, the outcomes of both stories are similar in that Jack doesn't get what he's after. In the flashback, Jack wants to reconcile with Christian, but instead he finds him dead. Regardless, he did find his father. On the island, Jack is seeing his dad and tries to find him. He's interrupted by Locke, who is looking for water. Jack's quest does not end with finding his father, as he wanted it to, although he does find the water that the camp needs, and he steps up and becomes the leader despite failing to save Joanna's life earlier that day. Jack here proves his father wrong, and shows the camp that he does have "what it takes".<br /><br />"Leave him alone. It's been 6 days and we're all still waiting. Waiting for someone to come. But what if they don't? We have to stop waiting. We need to start figuring things out. A woman died this morning just going for a swim and he tried to save her, and now you're about to crucify him? We can't do this. Everyman for himself is not going to work. It's time to start organizing. We need to figure out how we're going to survive here. Now, I found water. Fresh water, up in the valley. I'll take a group in at first light. If you don't want to go come then find another way to contribute. Last week most of us were strangers, but we're all here now. And god knows how long we're going to be here. But if we can't live together, we're going to die alone."<br /><br />Standout performances: Matthew Fox, Terry O'Quinn, John Terry.<br /><br />Standout scene: Jack and Locke's talk in the woods.