The Ninja Squad is another Godfrey Ho Ninja flick that's so bad it's entertaining like the previous ones and the ones that came later. The Ninja squad is entertaining for several reasons, one is that the Ninja's costumes all have headbands with the word "Ninja" on, it's like they're pointing the obvious to the audience, another thing is that the Ninja's are all white males, no Japaniese Ninja's just white Ninja's which is funny since the Ninja originated from Japan so you'd think they'd have some Ninja's from Japan. Another thing is that the main character Billy has spent all this time being a Ninja yet he doesn't even dress up or use any Ninja skills, he just beats them up or uses Machine guns. The reason for this is simple, apparently Godfrey and Joespeh Lai found reels of unreleased Hong Kong movies so to make a quick bit if money they shot some Ninja scenes and edited it in to other films then re-dubbed the unreleased movie they was using to make it like it was connected to their Ninja movie, it does make sense since why does the films always have a Ninja plot and a non Ninja plot, wouldn't it just have one plot like American Ninja. That was a very interesting bit of information I found out because it does make more sense when watching these Godfrey Ho Ninja movies. One thing you've got to put your hats up for is Richard Harrison, he's been in so many of these Ninja movies I lost count. He must of been a good sport to star in these low budget movies, he must of known they were cheesy but he still did a great job and starred in them. Later he stated that it made him feel like a prostitute but he was in that many you can't blame him, most of them was shot in the same year. <br /><br />The film sees a young boy named Billy training with Ninja Master Gordon (Played by the great Richard Harrison.), years later Billy returns home to his family. Billy needs to find a job since being a Ninja doesn't qualify as a paying job, it makes you wonder why Billy decided to spend all that time training with Gordon if he's told to get a proper job but again the whole Billy plot was from another movie. Meanwhile Gordon gets a threat from a Ninja named Ivan the Red who challenges him, he declines so Ivan then goes around killing other Ninja's to make him the ultimate Ninja Warrior. The Ninja's in this movie get killed way to easy, just a slice in they're stomach and they're dead and the funny thing is there's no blood. I guess they couldn't afford fake blood effects, there are some movies where a guy gets stabbed and he's still alive. Anyway Billy meets a group of thugs and beats them up and so because of that the kill his mother so Billy decides to get his revenge, Billy also has other problem since his girlfriend's father doesn't like her being with him since "He's a Ninja and a very dangerous man." Ivan the Red keeps discarding these Ninja's until he gets to fight Gordon then he will try and kill Billy, Gordon gets ready to face Ivan the Red and stop him from becoming the ultimate Ninja Warrior.<br /><br />The Ninja Sqaud is another cheesy, low budget Ninja movie that's entertainingly funny and should be seen if you're in the mood for a laugh at some Z-grade fun. Check this out. 10/10