(Please note this review may contain Spoilers) Although touted as a "Charlie's Angels" clone, it more closely resembles the premise of the Japanese Comic and subsequent Movie "Cat's Eye" (1997). As in Cat's Eye, sisters take revenge against a wrong committed against their father. In the case of "So Close", an evil Conglomerate had attempted to steal a super Global Positioning System(GPS)called World Panorama, which was developed by the father of two sisters. The Conglomerate kills the father and mother of the sisters, leaving them to eventually grow up to become deadly assassins. Using their father's computer GPS program and their talents as professional killers they launch a two-woman war against the companies responsible for their parent's death. During the course of their assignments they cross the path of a determined Forensics Expert who turns out to be much their equal. One of the sisters is killed and the other joins forces with the Forensics Expert to tear down the Conglomerate once and for all. While the plot is a ridiculous and silly one, there is much to like about "So Close". The three leads, Shu Qi, Vicki Zhao (aka Zhao Wei) and Karen Mok are absolutely mesmerizing on screen. Each brings with them a unique screen presence that is both sexy and endearing. Zhao Wei in particular is a joy to watch. As for the villains, Japanese Action Movie fans will be pleasantly surprised by the appearance of Yasuaki Kurata as one of the main bad guys of this movie. His fight scenes against Karen Mok and Zhao Wei are a standout. The movie is in a way a throwback to some of the "Girls-N-Guns" movies of the 80's like "Yes, Madam" and "In The Line of Duty". Corey Yuen once again proves he does not have to rely excessively on tricks like wires or rotoscoping to create good fight scenes. If you are looking for an intelligent action drama, you are probably better served skipping "So Close", however if you want a fun action drama that is so much more better than "Charlie's Angels", then "So Close" is something for you.