-I've been listening to movie scores since I was five, and this movie just might have one of the best film music I have ever heard in my 21 year life on this planet you humans call earth.<br /><br />-The movie picks up where the great series ended, there's being peace between the colonies and earth for a year now and everyone is happy with their lives. The Gundams are sent to the sun for destruction since they're no longer needed to maintain the peace. But before the Gundams are to be destroyed a new presence threatens to shatter the peace by kidnapping Relena and waging war on earth. This new presence which threatens to shatter the peace treaty and destroy the sacrifice that was made by the brave men a year ago is also the same group of rebels that was lead by Zachs the previous year. This time around the now good Zachs is no longer their leader and he is replaced by a little girl whose more of a figure head. The little girl is the daughter of the late Treize Khushrenada. She's claims that she's doing her father's will even though her father gave his life to maintain peace for the colonies and earth. she and her rebel forces have an abundance of mobile suits and space crafts ready for an all out assault on earth, this off course leads to be the Gundams being needed again and the characters coming out of their peaceful retreat to maintain the peace.<br /><br />-Fans of the series will also be delighted to hear that we spend time with each of the five pilots and get to learn where they're from. At least we get to learn where Trowa is from, and Zachs is back and badder than ever. The Gundams themselves have undergone some sort of face lift and I'm really glad they did because they look a lot cooler in this than they did in the anime show. The best upgrade is without a doubt Wingzero who actually is equipped with wings. That really doesn't make sense when you think about it but hey it's a cartoon so stuff like that should be overlooked.<br /><br />-This movie was made for fans of the series and nothing more. If you're someone who thinks a Gundam is some form of venereal disease then you need to go back to watching Pokemon. The one thing that drew me in the most was the score. From the very start of the movie, you know that this is going to be a great musical experience just by the dreamlike violins that gently caress the speakers to the ethereal use of wind instruments. It's like Danny Elfman and John Williams meet Phillip Glass and James Howard Newton. Just makes me glad to be a film music fan. The orchestral elements and electronic elements are mixed together nicely because sometimes they will have nice strings and horns going then kick some nice electric and bass guitar. American composer need to take note to the music because this is a great example of how to mix orchestral and electronic elements to form a pleasing listening experience.<br /><br />-Don't watch it if you haven't seen the TV series but if you have and you loved it then you should have no problem loving this.