For Gundam Wing fans who thought the last episode of the series left off at an awful place, Endless Waltz is a beautiful end to an incredible story. The version aired on Cartoon Network is the three-episode OAV, which had several scenes cut to make it into three twenty-five minute episodes. The movie version has about 15 minutes of additional footage (I think four scenes were cut, and the ending clips are different). Overall, I think that the Endless Waltz movie is much better, although the OAV has better background music. The movie ending theme, Last Impression, is so beautiful and very fitting- I cry at the end almost every time I watch Endless Waltz. The first two minutes or so are very slow, unlike most of the themes, and a little melancholy. Then, it's like an explosion: the tempo increases dramatically, and the listener is swept away by the passion in Last Impression. Still, there's definitely a sad note, not only in the lyrics but in the song itself. White Reflection is a little too upbeat to be a good ending theme, especially when the movie's ending is taken into consideration. However, it would make an excellent opening theme (if Endless Waltz had one).<br /><br />The DVD is an excellent value because not only does it contain both version of Endless Waltz and some nice little extras, it is possible to watch Endless Waltz in the original Japanese! I am admittedly not fond of the dubbing, even though it's a lot better than some I've heard. I cannot stand certain characters in the dubbing (i.e. Zechs and Noin-they sound too...old). I mean, they're supposed to be 20-21 years old. In the original, Noin sounds like she's 18-20 (depending upon whether you watch the early episodes, the later episodes, or Endless Waltz), and Zechs doesn't sound much older than 22. I think that the dubbed voices make them seem to be closer to 30. Other characters that sound younger in the subbed include Duo (his seiyuu really shapes Duo's character well- talkative, friendly teenager to serious Gundam pilot)and Relena (yes, she's actually more likeable in the original).<br /><br />I'll try not to do spoilers, but if you haven't seen the movie and don't want to know what happens, I strongly suggest you skip this next paragraph. The four cut scenes are not absolutely necessary to the plot line, although Sally's role in the fiasco is much clearer in the movie. The first cut scene explains why Quatre goes to retrieve the Gundams, and has a rather funny line courtesy of Duo. Cut scene number two is my absolute favorite (I try not to cry too much) because it is a sweet semi-reunion between Zechs and Noin. The third cut scene explains Sally's meeting with Duo and Trowa on the shuttle, and the fourth is a surprisingly good scene with Dorothy.<br /><br />The uncut version of Gundam Wing: Endless Waltz is rated pg-13 for good reason. There is quite a bit of swearing (nothing really offensive), violence, and blood. No sex, though, and the only romance is implied through dialogue. The cut version is suitable for mature 7 or 8-year-old children, and the uncut is okay for anyone over 13 (maybe a bit younger, even, if they're mature).<br /><br />Gundam Wing has held me in its world for well over a year, and I never tire of what has become a part of me. The plot is intricate yet realistic, the characters fascinating, the music beautiful, and the quality excellent. Endless Waltz is definitely not a disappointment to the Gundam Wing name.