I am so far removed from the target audience of this cartoonish, estrogen-heavy 2009 farce that it became a challenge to sit all the way through its blissfully brief 89-minute running time. The by-the-numbers screenplay by Greg DePaul, June Diane Raphael, and former SNL regular Casey Wilson could have been a sharp satire on the excesses of wedding-related commerce or a black comedy about competitiveness among the superficially entitled, either approach of which I would have praised. Sadly, it's neither, and as limply directed by Gary Winick ("13 Going on 30"), it seems targeted squarely to privileged pre-adolescent girls because the two principals reflect the obsessive, childish mindset of that age. Their emotional immaturity and sitcom-level behavior become draining.<br /><br />This contemporary parable focuses on childhood best pals Liv and Emma, which of course in this movie's simplistic terms, means they are opposites in every possible way. Liv is the wealthy, über-ambitious lawyer and naturally the less sympathetic one, while Emma is a doormat struggling to make ends meet as a middle-school teacher. To meet the plot's dimensions, it is Liv who has the perfect boyfriend, all understanding and patience, while Emma has a live-in boyfriend who apparently has issues with her budding emancipation. Waiting in the wings is Liv's brother who is made to look so ideal that the screenplay might as well telegraph the resolution. The plot turns on a consultation with Manhattan's leading wedding planner Marion St. Clare, whose administrative assistant erroneously double-booked Liv's and Emma's wedding on the same June day at the Plaza Hotel. The rest of the movie is about how they one-up each other with fraternity-level pranks until the inevitable conclusion.<br /><br />Kate Hudson (who also co-executive produced) seems to becoming a worse actress with every movie, as she plays almost every scene as Liv with the subtlety of a mime artist. I don't recognize any of the talent she showcased as free-spirit groupie Penny Lane in Cameron Crowe's "Almost Famous" nearly a decade ago. Anne Hathaway comes across marginally better as Emma, but that's like saying the Roadrunner has slightly more credibility than Wile E. Coyote. As Marion, Candice Bergen keeps playing the same role over and over again that I'm starting to wonder if a decade as Murphy Brown was a fluke. Kristen Johnston delivers the film's one truly sardonic note as Emma's fellow teacher-turned-maid of honor. The three men are mere background filler, although Bryan Greenberg ("Prime") looks to be making an attempt at a dimensional character. At least cinematographer Frederick Elmes gives the movie the appropriately polished sheen. The 2009 DVD contains three deleted scenes, all excisable, and an extended commercial for designer Vera Wang, whose wedding gowns are spotlighted in the film.