Okay, I liked "Bride Wars". Admittedly "Bride Wars" is not any sort of Oscar threat. It is a funny and sweet, albeit clumsy erratic romantic comedy. Anne Hathaway and Kate Hudson are great. In particular Anne Hathaway provides the emotional anchor in this fluffy romance. Director Gary Winick directed "13 Going on 30" a few years back which was really well done. "Bride Wars" is not as good. However, I think it redeems itself for its heart and sentiment. Hudson and Hathaway play childhood best friends Liv and Emma, who always dreamed of getting married at the Plaza Hotel in New York. 20 years later Liv and Emma find themselves engaged and hire Wedding Coordinator extraordinaire Marion St. Claire (classic Candice Bergen). They get their wish: dream June Weddings at The Plaza Hotel. Liv and Emma being soul sisters, of course will be each other's Maid of Honor.<br /><br />Predictably due to a glitch by Marion's assistant Liv and Emma's weddings are booked on the same day. Of course type A driven corporate attorney Liv (Hudson) initially expects "nice girl" school teacher Emma (Hathaway) to acquiesce. But neither will back down. Thus, begins the "Bride Wars". This is nearly as ridiculous as "The Clone Wars", although intentionally funny. We witness catty exchanges. Emma says, "Your wedding's gonna be huge, just like your ass at prom." Liv replies, "Your wedding can suck it." Not always inspired repartee. There is a hilarious bit where Liv expounds the Zen quality of Vera Wang. <br /><br />When Liv and Emma are at each other's throat there are hysterical moments. Liv causes Emma to turn orange at a tanning salon. Emma fattens up Liv by sending gift food baskets to her office-- Liv thinking they are from her fiancé Daniel (understanding Steve Howay). They include cookies and sweets. But the classic is that Liv actually consumes the butters of the world mix.<br /><br />Despite the unevenness, writers Greg DePaul and Casey Wilson delve underneath the high jinx: looking at whether Liv and Emma have found their respective soul mates in Daniel (Howay) and Fletcher (Chris Pratt). It's not entirely what we expected. At a narrative catharsis the vulnerable Hathaway's Emma exclaims, "I can't do this…" This goes to perhaps the underlying theme expressed so eloquently by Bergen's Marion,"… the one person who knows you sometimes better than you know yourself is the same person who's been standing beside you all along."<br /><br />The shortcoming of "Bride Wars" is not sustaining this eloquence throughout, when it deserves it. Hathaway infuses some of the needed poignancy here: As she really looks at her life when she talks with her dear friend, who also is Liv's solid brother Nate (charming Bryan Greenberg). Hudson, although seemingly having a bad hair movie, is at her quirky and spirited best playing the strung too tight Liv. What "Bride Wars" misses is more quiet time between gags, so Liv and Emma can just be. It's hysterical seeing Hathaway pole dancing. But it is also touching seeing Liv hug Emma's Dad.<br /><br />Hathaway, Hudson, and Bergen make up for much of the rougher spots of the screenplay. "Bride Wars" works, because it is the story of best friends and soul mates who get distracted from what is really important—love. In the end "Bride Wars" gets it right.