I honestly can't believe how serious some reviewers (most of them women) are taking Bride Wars. They are calling it feminist set back, chauvinistic and unrealistic. God forbid anyone let go of reality for a couple hours to enjoy a film especially a comedy and as a comedy, chick flick or not, a fun, hilarious, slapstick movie that anyone could enjoy. It's ridiculous to think that the movie is trying to anti-feminist or even try to stereotype anyone. Instead it's simply an amusing, slapstick ride about two best friends. My expectations for the film weren't all that high, I expected predictability and probably nothing too far from the beaten path but I was pleasantly surprised that the actors pulled off a riot of a movie and the story was watchable and not dragging. Screenplay co-writer Casey Wilson comes from Saturday Night Live which certainly helps with the comedy aspect but I think the style and character to the film is the lead actors. While neither actor really gets a lot of depth to her character they still have good solid chemistry and both are talented comediennes.<br /><br />Anne Hathaway has really come a long way as an actor. I instantly fell in love with her style and comedy in The Princess Diaries and have enjoyed her in a lot of other roles. She is a very talented actress but she can also let loose and just have fun and that's what her role in Bride Wars is all about. She is the more serious, down to earth of the two and although some have reviewed her character as weak I think she just shows a softer side than Hudson. Kate Hudson lets loose as the darker perhaps more mean spirited side of the two. She doesn't really go so far as to make you dislike her but she certainly isn't the more likable. Still she does a decent job but honestly I think Hathaway makes Hudson look better. Hathaway just has a style for physical comedy. Chris Pratt and Steve Howey play their significant others and I'm sure they both are decent actors but this doesn't really showcase their ability. The film focuses on the two girls. Candice Bergen could have been pretty spectacular because she is a very talented comedienne but she doesn't get a lot of screen time or character development. Kristen Johnston on the other hand is hilarious as the naive and abrasive friend to Hathaway.<br /><br />The key to really enjoying Bride Wars is to not take the film seriously. I mean it is a comedy and perhaps a "chick flick" but the film was made for a certain demographic and it works!! Hathaway and Hudson are great together and you will laugh out loud and just really enjoy the film. It is probably true that a female director might have made the film different but Gary Winick is not new to the concept having worked on female favorites like Ugly Betty and the film 13 Going On 30. I think it's ridiculous and to call a film chauvinistic because it features two women who have dreams of their wedding which happens to be a little bit old fashion perhaps? Point is guy or gal, date, or Saturday Night alone this film will make you smile. 8/10