I saw this movie yesterday,even after reading some comments on this site. I found it pretty good.it's certainly not the movie of the year,but since when a comedy is?The movie is light and there are some funny moments. If you're looking for something light to watch, something just for not thinking for 90 minutes, then it's that kind of movie. I don't know what people here were awaiting for this movie?Something that would make your brain working?If yes, well they were wrong go seeing this movie. It's not Davinci Code. This movie is about two young girls dreaming of a wedding in a hotel in particular. I think the movie just shows what some little girls, when kids, were dreaming of.I think, few or many years ago, it was common to see little girls dreaming of it and maybe the movie just shows the audience what was once a dream and now with the society,well the wedding is getting a bit something people forget about,the true goal of it maybe.There might be parts of the movie that married people would find funny as maybe it was their case. I'm not talking about all the bi***y parts of it between the two girls of the movie!Yes there are some cruels pranks and some are like "come on!idiot!"and you're starting a bit to think that it's a bit over exaggerated about all the pranks.But it also showed, above all these cruel and stupid pranks, what even best friend can do to the other one. I didn't think the acting was bad. In fact,it's a C-O-M-E-D-Y!Not a big drama or action movie or something like that!I think the acting was good and I personally don't really look at the acting when I watch a movie,I'm more interested about the movie and what's happening than the acting,except if it's a really bad acting like in some movies I saw and forgot the tittle. So I think, to have a clear opinion on that movie,you should go and see it by yourself and make you own opinion than making your own only by reading the comments. It's not a big theater movie and it will probably stay a long time so maybe wait for it to come on DVD if you're not sure about seeing it or not.