Ah, chick flicks, gotta love them, their non-clever formula's and clichés are always a joy to watch. OK, I'm being a little mean, it's all good, we do have some good chick flicks and from the moment I saw Bride Wars, I thought it looked promising. Sure, there are a lot of great conclusions that you come to when you see what the movie is about, two best friends who are scheduled to marry the same day, from: they're best friends who can't compromise? They could technically sue the company that mixed their dates up or even get it fixed if that company wanted to stay in business. But I just kept thinking, this is a movie, it could be a funny one if I let go. We do need movies like that that just escape reality, so I rented it the other day and I really couldn't escape how silly and over the top this movie was.<br /><br />Emma and Liv are best friends who have planned every detail of their weddings since they first witnessed a wedding at the Plaza Hotel. The two women get engaged. They then schedule their weddings with New York's most famous wedding planner, but due to a clerical error they're scheduled to have a wedding on the same day. A week of passive aggressive hostility passes before the two women make it clear that neither will compromise, especially after Liv tries to take advantage of Emma's passive nature and outrages Emma in the process. The women both attempt to sabotage the other's wedding, including Liv making Emma's tan turn bright orange, Emma tampering with Liv's hair dye to make it turn Liv's hair blue-white, Emma showing up to Liv's bachelorette party to out-dance her, and Emma secretly sending Liv chocolate and lollies to make her not fit into her dress. Oh when will the madness end? Gotta love women.<br /><br />Now the movie does have some good laughs here and there, but they're mostly shown in the trailer. I think one of the reasons this movie disturbed me though was due to the fact that there are women like this, one's that are so beyond obsessed with their wedding they don't even realize they're getting married. Women are competitive creatures unfortunately, I'm a woman, so I know, and we go to great lengths to prove we're prettier, smarter, kinder, etc., etc., etc. I wish that women would take a step forward where this movie is just proving time and time again that we are stupid. Two best friends who should love and support each other are trying to destroy each other's weddings, I was wrong in trying to give this movie a fair chance, it's just wrong on so many levels, wither it's the morals or just the clichéd characters, I wouldn't recommend Bride Wars.<br /><br />2/10