I've got to admit first off that I much prefer Universal's Frankenstein series to the Dracula one (same goes for Hammer Horror), but this third showing for the count isn't bad at all. The films following Tod Browning's 1931 original are not as professionally done - but so long as you go into them knowing that you're watching a B-movie, that shouldn't be a problem. Son of Dracula is better than Dracula's Daughter in my opinion, albeit only slightly. The story in this film hits home harder and while it lacks the sensuality of the previous Dracula sequel, that's made up for in several other areas. Unlike the last film, this one doesn't really follow on and is pretty much a solo entry in the Dracula series. We follow a morbid, yet naive heiress, who invites a man named Count Alucard (Dracula spelt backwards) to her U.S. home. Her boyfriend is suspicious of the newcomer, and this suspicion turns to jealously when the Count and the heiress are married. This then turns to tragedy when he accidentally shoots the heiress...<br /><br />Despite being famous for the role, Bela Lugosi actually only played Dracula once; which is unfortunate, as the rest of the series could have benefited from having him in the lead. Lon Chaney Jr (a man who has played all of Universal's main villains) is a worthy replacement, however; but the Count just doesn't seem as sinister with him in the role. Robert Siodmak takes the director's chair and does a good job with it. The atmosphere isn't as thick and foreboding as his later film, The Spiral Staircase, and the tone is typically Universal in that it's 'fun' - but the film is continually dark and sinister, which is nice. The special effects are good considering the time that it was made, and seeing Alucard change into a bat or appear from a shroud of mist is always a highlight. The story takes in themes of love and selfishness, and the characters are actually rather well done. I can't say that either the characters or the film itself is a patch on the original Dracula book and film, but it was never meant to be and this film is a worthy addition to the Dracula series.