To most people this movie is about a small town in the South. To me that one small town street is the place where my husband and I used to day dreaming about buying antique furniture after he would finish graduate school at the University of Florida, in Gainesville, Florida. The movie location, the one street town of Micanopy, is just a few miles away from Gainesville. They show the entire downtown! As I have watched Doc Hollywood umpteen times, I love to see the corner store, which was a jewelry store called the Strawberry Bank specializing in antique jewelry about seventeen years ago. I would put stuff on lay-way as graduate students could not afford the luxury of buying something faster. Then we would drive around those back roads full of trees and Spanish moss and eat an early dinner: fried cat fish, fried okra, rice, and whatever fresh thing they had that our small stomachs could contain. It was such a great time in our lives! That area is surrounded by students. I guess we did not realize how little we had as graduate students, since we were even able to afford an off-campus apartment! Everybody else had about the same youth and enthusiasm and we were looking to our bright futures. I would go to the library and get books on antiques furniture, old lace and antique jewelry. I would audit French classes, take classes in jewelry making techniques: such as lost wax and casting. I learned so much about life in that town, and biked until I ended up tan without ever sitting in the sun.<br /><br />	Like Michael J. Fox (The American President) "Dr. Benjamin Stone," I was fascinated with the big city. Coming from one of the largest cities in the world, I just wondered what I was going to do after I finished my classes as a Visiting Student at the UF. Well after living there for about four years, I learned much more than what graduate school could ever teach. Like Dr. Stone, I fell in love with the place, I would not mind having a pig named Jasmine, I fell in love with the quilt making, the silence, the southern hospitality, and how "they all" thought I had an accent. I can even do a pretty good southern accent now myself! Every once in while a celebrity would come to town like Sally Fields (Forest Gump) raising support for a project that her brother a physics professor at UF was working on. Those college folk, they sure come up with strange ideas. That was so cool!<br /><br />Julie Warner (Mr. Saturday Night) "Lou" was so adorable with her down to earth attitude. I loved to see the Mayor dressed like a squash. That is the South! This is an excellent movie. It has values. Ben Stone realized that being a Doctor in a small town might even mean having to read to your clients personal letters to them because they could not read. He in the end realizes that being needed is far more important than money. My favorite quotes: " Watch your language Doc, you are in the belt of the Bible belt." Stone: "There were cows in the middle of the road! I told you my insurance company will be happy to pay for that fence." Judge:"I built that fence myself. Neither you, nor, your insurance company can pay for a fence that I built myself." My favorite scenes: the one street in Micanopy, the cute wooden cabin, the little old ladies quilting and arguing. Ben Stone and Lou driving around on that old huge ambulance, and acting like real animals demarcating their territories by scent. They would urinate and distribute the liquid around to detract deer that would attract the hunters. My husbands favorite scene is Julie Warner slowing rising from under water when she was skinny dipping. Not lewd, but enchanting. Well we are going to "visit all " the relatives down south and eat fresh catfish in some back road "ma &pa restaurant." I guess " you all" have to go buy or rent this movie.