I haven't seen the original or read the original screenplay, so I can't make any comparisons. But I have seen Queen Latifah and Jimmy Fallon in this really bad film. I would just like to put thinks clear, because truly, sometimes a movie tries to hard to accomplish its objective but it ultimately fails. Honestly, this film stole some laughs from me, but not many, I mean: it was really stupid and nonsense most of the time. <br /><br />I couldn't think of anyone believing that if a person is funny doing one thing, this makes that person funny in doing anything. Yes, as many could say, Jimmy Fallon spreads talent all around when he steps on the "SNL" set. But when he steps on a movie set, I have to tell him: "That's different buddy, you're not doing the same thing you do always" What a mistake they made in telling this guy to act as he always does. Movies are another thing, and for a television actor, a very important chance. You're ruining it, Jimmy! It was awful to hear this guy talking and see him making faces. He had the stupid lines ("My precious") and the embarrassing moments. I mean, the movie was embarrassing in these moments, but he made it more embarrassing. Good luck with your next project, Jim, although I'm not expecting one. <br /><br />The rest of the cast was pretty solid, for what they needed to do. Queen Latifah continues to grow (and I'm really sorry if you don't agree) as a charming leading lady (in this case playing the taxi driver Belle) becoming the only worthy thing to watch in the movies she's in. I mean, last year I went to see "Bringing down the house"; I fell asleep! She woke me up, or a friend of mine, I think. So I should just recognize Latifah's talent and hope she continues to grow. The experienced Ann-Margret has the biggest, if not the only laughs in the movie, drinking without stopping for a second, and living next to his son Washburn (Jimmy Fallon). This made me thought if Fallon lives with his mother too. Henry Simmons, still a newcomer, gave the best of his character, which wasn't much.<br /><br />Actually, nothing could be much at all, because the storyline was so repetitive and the script was so lame. They just couldn't get tired of chasing scenes, could they? The film is not a shame when it comes to direction; but I just can't understand why Tim Story, after doing a respectable comedy like "Barbershop", got into this. There was a lot of movement in the camera, not that bad. The Statue of Liberty shot and Times Square weren't forgotten, of course. If I don't say much about the story, it's not because I want you to find out, but because it would be useless (you'll probably get what I mean, later).<br /><br />But then after all, we end up wanting a little bit more from this piece that doesn't provide us as it should. <br /><br />A one paragraph should be written, praising the team for putting Jennifer Esposito and Gisele Bundchen in the same movie. These two fine women are reason enough to watch this film. They were intelligent enough to know the movie wasn't working; but they knew the girls would. This is also a business.