The cats who made this movie are burning in hell for eternity. And God bless their li'l hearts for producing a film so stunningly offensive that even I was forced to say, "That's just mean." I have seen a half dozen or so of these "Naziploitation" flicks but this bad boy takes the cream of the cake of the crop. If you have never been entertained by Naziploitation before, let me clue you in--this movie is all about the JEWS. Say the word JEW a few times to get yourself used to it. You will be hearing the word JEW used in some pretty crazy-ass dialogue if you watch this film. This is such a great movie. <br /><br />The Nazis here are completely inhuman in this concentration camp sexploitation mutant. The first scene that told me that this was going to be a white-knuckle thrill ride is one where a roomful of naked German troops are shown some weird sexually violent scheisse films and then are loosed on a number of nude Jewish women to violate. Then there's the girl who is thrown in with the dogs. Then a bunch of other Jewish girls are picked out for torture and sexual slavery, including our heroine Lise. Then there's the Nazi dinner party where they eat Jews. "Much tenderer than veal!" grins the sicko prison camp commandant Starker. One guy even holds his meat-laden fork in the air and admires it--"There's nothing better than a pot roast of unborn Jew!" <br /><br />Then there's the flambée scene--let me talk about this for a little bit. First off, when the notion of burning a naked women alive and eating her hits Starker, he is absolutely beaming. He starts everyone sweeping the dishes off the banquet table so's they can fire up the old gal. The attendants of the Nazi dinner pour cognac on the naked girl and the creepiest-looking of them lights up and drops a match with his hands all aquiver. The Nazis watch the girl burn out and you can see in their faces that they are drunk with power and reveling in their sadistic glory. And then we see them all bloated and trashed on the floor with the charred remains of their feast on the table. <br /><br />And that scene is only halfway through the movie--there is a bunch more off-the-wall shenanigans to go till the end! This flick really delivers, man. Beyond the sheer jaw-dropping brazenness of it, it is actually a very well-made film that could succeed even without the pervasive rape and other horrific visuals. Take that as a recommendation. 10 outta 10.