This is a brilliant Sci-Fi/Thriller, that really leaves you thinking, with an outstanding story and an incredible performance from Tom Cruise!. All the characters are wonderful and very likable, and it keeps you guessing throughout, plus Tom Cruise is simply incredible in this!. This is a movie that requires a lot of concentration, because it's one of those films you have to pay strict attention too, and the plot is seriously awesome, plus one of my favorite moments in the film is when Cruise chases his own eyeballs!. This is up there with one of Spielberg's best films and believe me he has done a lot of brilliant movies, and This is one of Cruise's finest performances,plus it's full of awesome twists and turns so don't blink!. It's extremely well made and written, and for once I agree with Roger Ebert's review!, plus you will really root for Cruise's character throughout. I loved those little mechanical spiders, and I thought that ending was just wicked! plus while i'm not a huge fan of Colin Farrell he did a fantastic job here and really impressed me!.<br /><br />Max Von Sydow was also excellent, and the special effects are simply stunning, plus the chase sequences are awesome as well!. I saw this a couple years ago and was unimpressed, however after upon 2nd viewing, I must say It deserves it's praise, so if you didn't care for it the 1st time, give it a second viewing, you may change your opinion.This should honestly be in the top 250 in my opinion, and there are some fantastic creepy moment as well, plus I loved the depressing atmosphere it had at times, and This is almost like The Fugitive except it's set in the future, plus It also has some very funny scenes in it as well. Cruise had excellent chemistry with Samantha Morton, and I especially loved the dialog, plus some scenes really had me on the edge of my seat!. This is a brilliant Sci-Fi/thriller that really leaves you thinking, with an outstanding story and an incredible performance from Tom Cruise, and if you haven't seen it, Do so immediately, you shouldn't regret it.<br /><br />The Direction is spectacular!. Steven Spielberg does a spectacular job here with amazing camera work, fantastic angles, awesome use of blue,excellent lighting,great slow mo shots, and plenty of other uncanny shots as well, plus he kept the film at an extremely engrossing pace.<br /><br />The Acting is incredible!. Tom Cruise is amazing as always and is incredible here, he gives one of his finest performances, is extremely likable , blew me away in his emotional scenes, had great chemistry with Samantha Morton,as always had lots of charisma, and has really matured as an actor, and if you don't think he can act watch this movie! (Cruise Rules!!!!!!!). Max Von Sydow is excellent here in his role, he brought tons of class, was especially good at the end, and had some awesome scenes with Cruise!, I loved him. Colin Farrell is fantastic here, I am not a big fan, but he certainly was good here, he held his own against Cruise, and really gave a good show I liked him a lot. Samantha Morton is awesome as the creepy psychic chick, she gave a great show, and had very good chemistry with Cruise. Lois Smith is good in her scene as The Doc I liked her. Neal McDonough is good as Fletch I just wished they gave him more to do. Kathryn Morris is good as Cruise's wife I really liked her. Rest of the cast do fine.<br /><br />Overall Go see it immediately!. ***** out of 5