I had never heard of this movie when I first saw it. My friends had rented it among some other (and better) movies for Halloween. It turned out we were lucky we had each other, because this would not have been near as fun to watch if I had been alone.<br /><br />"The Feeding" is possibly the worst horror movie I've ever seen. Everything about it...okay, I'll go through this systematically.<br /><br />THE CHARACTERS--These are some of the flattest, most one-dimensional, most overused characters I've ever seen. We have the typical "young campers lost in the woods" thing going, so they're all out there making love, getting naked, smoking pot, and saying things that would make them sound stupid enough if it weren't for the fact that the acting is ATROCIOUS. There's the black guy, who talks and acts like black guys always do in these movies (he gets shot with an arrow right near the heart and just says, "DAMN!" I kid you not.) The cops are also really lame...you got the overly headstrong male cop who realizes only too late that he can't take on the werewolf with his gun, and the female cop who's supposedly smarter than anybody else but isn't always listened to until towards the end. They are all so boring, so stupid, and so poorly acted that you really don't miss any of them when they die. In fact, you're wishing the wolf would get every last one of them. Except...<br /><br />THE WEREWOLF--My God, the Werewolf was so hilariously bad. All the scenes with the wolf use some kind of ugly disorienting camera effect to try and hide how cheap the wolf was, but it didn't do anything. It's head is some sort of cheap, papier-mache wolf-meets-alligator monstrosity that never changes expressions or anything, but drools incessantly. The rest of the wolf looks like a mangy, moth-eaten Muppet. The wolf gets way too much exposure from the very beginning, so even if it had been scary there's no tension at all. You always see it well before anybody dies, and the only horror is based off of cheesy and overblown gore which is more disgusting than scary.<br /><br />THE PLOT--You basically know it already. It's absolutely predictable and lacking in any interest, from start to finish. Some sort of predator is moving across the country, killing all the wildlife and then framing some local predator somehow. (I've never heard of a cougar ripping somebody's spinal column out, but...never mind.) A couple of cops in the Appalachians have heard about some deaths, which they figure out is caused by some unnatural force. And of course, there are the campers, who are unaware of what's going on and too stupid to really do much when it does come. They more or less get picked off one by one, but we really can't care who is dying because the characters are all so damn similar. Of course, there is one girl who survives to the end and finishes off the wolf, but unlike in most horror movies she's just as thick as everybody who dies. They manage to make some silver arrows in a cheesy forge montage, and the hero says some one-liner before shooting the wolf. When it dies, it becomes some ugly guy we've never seen before, except when they show it from the side. Then it's still all hairy and stuff.<br /><br />OVERALL--If you really like making fun of bad movies with friends, you might rent this. Movies don't get much worse. If you want to be scared, or you're expecting any sort of quality or redeeming factor, then I tell you you will not like this. I have not even begun to lay out how awful The Feeding is.