Joan Crawford was a star. She was not so much an actress, but a star. She didn't have the craft down to an art form, but boy could she command the screen. In fact, often her larger-than-life persona was too big for the limitations of the movie theatre. And this was especially true during her mid-40s to mid-50s heyday - perfectly coiffed hair, exaggerated eyebrows and all. And Joan was never better than when she was a woman in peril ("Autumn Leaves", "Sudden Fear") or a woman-on-the-verge. And this brings us to "Possessed". Not only was Joan-on-the verge in this film. She goes over-the-edge and somersaults all the way down to the bottom with sheer, unadulterated gusto.<br /><br />In "Possessed", Joan is in love with Van Heflin. Van doesn't love Joan the same way and makes this quite clear from the beginning. However, Joan is not able to let go him that easily. She continues to pine away for him even after being rebuffed over and over. Meanwhile, Joan tries to stay busy as the caretaker for the ill wife of Raymond Massey. When the wife dies, Joan and Raymond come together. He wants to be with her so he is not alone. And she wants to be with him hoping that the marriage will lead her down a normal path and steer her clear from her obsessive ways. Once Van Helfin re-enters the scene as the new love interest of Joan's stepdaughter, her delusions and obsessive tendencies once again come to fruition.<br /><br />Joan is great as this woman unraveling at the seams. And Geraldine Brooks is very good in her first major film role as the bitchy stepdaughter who eventually warms up to Joan. However, the men are mediocre. They make you wonder why Joan is even tangled up with them at all. This is excellent film noir. The opening with its thunderous classical piano stylings give way to a smart, stylish film which never slows down. Sure there are better movies about mental illness. "The Snake Pit" which stars Olivia De Havilland is a realistic look at the disease. And "Leave Her To Heaven" with Gene Tierney is a true noir classic in which Gene goes even more nutso than Joan could dream of. However, "Possessed" is a great vehicle for Joan at the top of her game and a solid entry into this classic genre.