This movie ranks dead-even with "Wolf" as the closest I've come to being driven to the exits before the closing credits. What a dreadful disappointment.<br /><br />The trailer/commercials for this movie make it look somewhat interesting, because it gives you a quick snippet of what has happened in Ben and Katie's lives together (with children Josh and Erin sprinkled throughout). You would think when the actual full-length movie is front of you, the scenes would develop what you see in the commercials. Guess again! The life-flashing-before-your-eyes look at life is what we get in the full movie. Instead of developing these moments, we get brief glimpses while the other 100 minutes or whatever (felt like four hours) were filled with redundant plot devices (OK, you've called each other for the sixth time and said nothing but "are the kids OK" followed by awkward silence ... we get it) and unfunny humor, which is mainly of the toilet manner (literally--the empty toilet paper roll is much funnier in the trailer than it was in the movie; Reiser and Reiner tend to keep the conversation on the subject of the "skin flute"). The dialogue that I assume was intended for comic relief was as painful to listen to as any of the Willis-Pfeiffer conversations.<br /><br />The acting of Willis and Pfeiffer wasn't bad, but the ending is not believable at all (another case of wrapping a movie up simply because it's nearing two hours and we need a resolution, no matter how flimsy). It was so formula -- I was halfway expecting one of those endings where they give you the summary of what they are doing now. You know, "Katie turned her life around and is now donating time at the local animal rescue league. Erin is on the debate team ..."; that kind of thing. And another thing: My fiancee and I both turned to each other during the "climactic" scene and wondered why the hell the kids, who had been so nosy earlier in the movie on almost every occasion, hadn't stuck their heads out of the car to see what the hell Mom was going on and on and on and on and on about ....<br /><br />This was painful to watch, and not in a good way. Some movies tug at the emotions, bringing out the tears or joy or anger or fear ... this movie only brings boredom. The bad writing could have been compensated by good timing, but every time the movie attempted to find some rhythm, there would be one of those awful scenes where one of the characters would be in a room by themselves talking to the camera! Another annoying trend of current cinema/television lumped right on top of this scrap heap of a vehicle. Save your money for upcoming releases.