Directed by Rob Reiner (When Harry Met Sally), one of my favorite directors because he depicts sad realities in funny ways. He picks his own projects in a way that I always applaud him. This movie delineates very important differences between men and women, their feelings, and their behavior.<br /><br />The key reason of the low ratings, in my view, is because there is a generational conflict here. I have asked young married people how the was movie, and they said that they didn't like it. I talked to people in their forties, fifties, and they loved it. Their comment it usually is: "It is reality." The younger couples, the ones that are engaged, just don't get it yet. They are in a different stage in their lives. They have not been married 15 years like the couple in this movie was. What this movie proposed to do was to show what happens if people take each other for granted. They behave like Sally indicated in "When Harry Met Sally," words once said are out there and cannot be taken back. The movie concentrated on the conflicts that lead almost to the destruction of their marriage. To bring all those conflicts to light in a funny way took a lot of talent. That is why we need Rob Reiner. Bruce Willis (The Sixth Sense, Nobody's Fool), Ben Jordan, is trying very hard. Actually Bruce Willis surprised me with some of his roles as I have seen very few of his movies, not enjoying action movies. He is good! The reason I do not see much of his acting is because of the projects he picks. They seam too violent. Michelle Pfeiffer (One Fine Day) is good in the part of Katie Jordan. The story is told by Ben's perspective, she appears to be holding on to the things that don't matter more than he is. I recommend the movie, but if you are very young you will not understand it, even kids of divorced parents do not get it. I credit the low ratings to that. Some people just don't get the movie because they haven't been there in their relationships. I think it is very insightful into marriages in general. I can say that because I have been happily married for almost twenty-three years. Unfortunately there are tons of couples that live just like that.<br /><br />The question raised is "Can a marriage survive 15 years of marriage?" Yes it can, if Ben and Katie's did. They took each other for granted most of the time. My favorite quotes: Katie: "Austin has a turtle that snores." Ben: "No one designated you. You designated yourself." Katie:"You love who we were, you could not want what we become, somehow you get use to the disconnection." Favorite Scenes: When Katie finally recognized that friends are hard to find. This is a very good movie. <br /><br />