The Love Guru, when I saw the trailer, I wasn't exactly laughing, but it was Mike Myers, the clever man who has brought us Austin Powers and Wayne's World, I had to have hope. Well, Mike Myers, I have no choice, I really wanted to slap the heck out of him when I was watching this painful movie. Now I'm convinced that Mike must have some obsession with the penis, because there are so many penis jokes in this movie it just becomes painfully unfunny. Now there was a decent audience in the movie theater, like twenty something people, I did not hear one laugh, seriously, I even kept sighing, wondering when this movie was going to be over. Five people left early complaining, I wished I had joined them, but something inside me was just hoping that something would make me laugh, I was really pulling for Mike, but he has just made me so unhappy with this bad movie that was just his pathetic attempt of constantly reminding people of his good comedic days.<br /><br />Guru Pitka is a self help guru who is very successful, but he is ranked as the number two self help guru of the world. The only way he feels like he can be successful is to be on Oprah. So he has to save a man, Darran, on a loosing hockey team in Canada to get him back with his ex girlfriend who is with this "cocky" winning goalie, Jacques Grande. Guru also meets the owner of the team, Jane, who he just falls for, so in order for him to get famous, he has to get Darran back with his girl and the team will start winning.<br /><br />Yeah, I'm serious, that's the "plot", sad, isn't it? I just seriously cannot believe how low Mike Myers has sunk, the cast was bad and the story was just, I don't think it was even existent. Now, I hate it when people call movies racist without even thinking what the movie is supposed to be, but you know what?! I was friggin' offended by this movie, it was just plan sad, Mike Myers has lost his game and cannot admit it. He should have just stuck to the animated voices, because his characters now are just lame. There is nothing I could say more than please just stay away from this film, I know I said this before, but this is just a painful and unfunny movie. Good luck to Mike Myers, he'll need it big time after more critics review this bad movie.<br /><br />1/10