In 1994 when Ace Ventura: Pet Detective was released many in the acting establishment felt the film to be unacceptable. And yet millions of people including myself and Jim Carrey still can't stop laughing. Clearly one of the hits of 1994, Jim Carrey gives a brilliant and funny performance that helped launch his superstar career. You have it Ace Ventura (Jim Carrey) simply is the best there is. In fact, he's the only one there is! Pet Detective (Jim Carrey) ventures out to find the Miami Dolphins' missing mascot after it is kidnapped from team headquarters just a week before the Super Bowl, to worsen matters dolphin quarterback Dan Marino is abducted. Along the way the good and the bad happen first a meeting with dolphin secretary Melissa Robinson (Courteney Cox) leads to a blast-off bed moving romance! Great acting by Cox hey she's got talent. I must say that Courteney Cox is a great piece of eye candy! Literally speaking Courteney is my chocolate delight! Plus Ace goes eyeball to eyeball with a man-eating shark, and his investigation of the Miami Dolphins team simply woos everyone as the persistent search for the missing mascot continues with a clue that is linked to a missing AFC Championship Ring from 1984. Boy does the fun begin then all starting with Lieutenant Lois Einhorn (A.K.A. Ray Finkle), when Ace takes a trip to nearby Collier County to meet with Finkle's parents he discovers the revenge and hate Finkle had for Marino and the dolphins after missing that critical field goal in the Super Bowl. I must mention to all you researchers, archivists, and investigators that have interest in The Florida Skunk Ape which is said to actually roam the woods of Collier County never fear you should hire a professional that being Ace Ventura: Pet Detective! I know the movie may see or spell it Culler County, but they actually mean Collier county and I feel Collier is more suitable. I just felt that a Skunk Ape mention was a nice little note to add to my Pet Detective comment! Now finally Ventura learns the horrible truth that Einhorn is really Finkle and is also guilty of the kidnapping of both Marino and the dolphin. Can you believe Einhorn a man! Better late than never Marino and the dolphin mascot back for the second half of the Super Bowl! All great performances from Carrey, Cox, Sean Young, and Tone Loc. So if you haven't watched, please do but I'm sure your like the millions who have watched Ace Ventura: Pet Detective. Plenty of laughs plus enjoy the film that really made Jim Carrey a star. This is much better than some of Carrey's more overrated works like Liar Liar and The Truman Show.