When I was little, I used to like the "Aladdin" trilogy, and Mrs. Rivard's class and I saw those movies, as well as Miss Haynes. "Aladdin: The Return of Jafar" is one of them, preceding with "Aladdin and the King of Thieves". The story is simple: After the ordeal in the Cave of Wonders, the black lamp somehow emerges, and Iago breaks free of the lamp, is tired of Jafar's orders, and dumps the black lamp into the well and sets out for Agrabah, where Aladdin is attacked by Razoul and the guards (again; hey, he had been trying hard to be sultan when something came to mind, didn't he?). Iago keeps Al safe from danger, and is made a slave by the Sultan, Jasmine and Rajah (the tiger, who kind of plays cat-and-mouse with Iago). Anyway, Genie returns from his trip and brings back the laughs (even though he is voiced by Dan Castellaneta, even in "Kingdom Hearts", he is still funny).<br /><br />Meanwhile, Jafar's black lamp has been found by Abis Mal (Jason Alexander), a thief who had confronted Al and lost. Abis Mal frees Jafar from the lamp and asks him for revenge by disposing of Al and company. Jafar does so by capturing Genie, Abu and Rajah and making Iago his (hopefully temporary) master while Al, Sultan and Carpet are away. Jafar then makes his next move with Abis Mal by capturing the Sultan and Carpet and trying to kill Al but sparing his life. (I also like the way that Al can swim underwater and resurface; at least it's better than drowning in chains in the first "Aladdin" movie. :P) Anyway, Al returns to the palace, only to find that he has been framed for killing the Sultan. At the trial, Al defends his innocence by telling Razoul the truth, but all of a sudden a figure of Jasmine appears with her dad's evidence, convicts Al, and sentences him to die at dawn. She then returns to the palace... only to transform back into Jafar. (After all, he was the one who HAD captured Jasmine and appeared in her disguise.) He then reveals his plan to Al's pals and takes off in Jasmine's disguise. Iago remains behind to guard them as a spy against Jafar, and they tell him he has to do something to save Al, and he tries many attempts to save Genie until he succeeds in the final moment.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Al is led to execution by decapitation, and finds that "Jasmine" is actually Jafar in disguise before they cover his head with a bag before the sword (kind of like modern times in Iraq-Iran). At the moment that Razoul can strike, a figure in a Superman outfit appears and speedily snatches Al away; sure enough, it's the Superman-Genie! LOL (This is the second time that Al nearly dies, but is then saved by Genie. I wonder, perhaps, if the execution scene may be included in "Kingdom Hearts 2", with lethal injection replacing decapitation.) Anyway, Al's pals are freed, and they settle the score with Jafar once and for all. They get attacked (including Genie, disguised as Aladdin LOL), and just when things get hopeless, Iago grabs Jafar's lamp, and even though he's hurt by Jafar, he lets go of the lamp, which falls into the lava, destroying Jafar for good. Agrabah is safe once again, with Abis Mal hanging on a tree after the end credits, saying, "Does this mean I don't get my third wish?" LOL Overall, with songs that include "I'm Looking Out for Me", "Nothing in the World (Quite Like a Friend)", "Forget About Love", and "Second Rate", I'm giving this a 9 out of 10.