As rare as it is, Disney will have good sequels that will come out and one of those is Return of Jafar, even though this one you can tell the animation isn't as great as the original and Robin Williams skipped out on this one, I still really enjoyed this Disney sequel. I thought it was pretty cool to see how Jafar would get his revenge as a genie, you thought he was a scary villain just as a sorcerer? Imagine him as a genie with all the powers in the world! It's pretty crazy, but I like how they are continuing the story between Aladdin and Jasmine and how Aladdin's life has been since the Sultan has invited him to stay within the castle and to love his daughter. Plus we have the genie, Abu, and the carpet back, how could you not just fall in love with them again? Return of Jafar is a great sequel and has a very good story.<br /><br />The story opens with a band of robbers arriving in their hideout with their latest spoils. Just as their incompetent leader, Abis Mal, rouses the ire of his men, Aladdin and Abu steal the treasures back and distribute most of it among the poor of Agrabah, with the exception of a jewel flower, which Aladdin intends to give to Jasmine. Upon their arrival, Jasmine announces to Aladdin a surprise which the Sultan intends to reveal at this evening's dinner. Meanwhile, in the desert, Iago manages to dig himself and Jafar's genie lamp out of the sand, into which the Genie had fired them. Jafar orders Iago to release him at once, but Iago, tired of being treated badly by Jafar, throws the lamp into a nearby well. He returns to Agrabah, hoping to convince Aladdin that he had served Jafar only because he had hypnotized him just like the Sultan. He meets Aladdin and insists that he is innocent, but Aladdin is not fooled and tries to capture him. While chasing Iago, Aladdin has a run-in with Abis Mal and some of his men, but is saved by Iago. Now willing to give Iago a fair chance, Aladdin returns with him to the palace, where they are greeted by Genie, who has returned from seeing the world and is glad to be home in Agrabah. That night, the Sultan announces that he wants to make Aladdin his new grand vizier. Trying to draw on the good mood, Aladdin attempts to persuade the Sultan to forgive Iago, but Iago inadvertently ruins the dinner and the Sultan and Jasmine are furious. With Iago's help, though, Jasmine eventually reconciles with Aladdin. Meanwhile, Jafar, by luck, is found by Abis Mal. As Jafar is a genie, he is handicapped by the incompetence of his new "master". Jafar desires to be free so that he can get revenge on Aladdin and rule Agrabah, but needs Mal's co-operation to do this. Once in the palace, Jafar reveals himself to Iago and forces him to play along with his plans. The next day, Aladdin and the Sultan depart to have a discussion at a place suggested by Iago. After they leave, Jafar confronts the Genie and Abu in the Palace gardens and shows his power, imprisoning the pair. When Aladdin thanks Iago, he is ambushed by Abis Mal, and the sulton is captured.<br /><br />Even though Iago was a great little villain sidekick, I think I liked him better turning on Aladdin's side and seeing him rescue the gang from Jafar was just awesome. Even though the soundtrack isn't as memorable as the first Aladdin, I still loved Iago's song "I'm looking out for me". I'm a little sad that the same cast didn't return, but these voices did just as well and the story still worked. I really did like this sequel, even if others didn't, I think it was just a great way to continue Aladdin's journey with the genie, Jasmine, Abu and the others. Plus it was cool to see Jafar come back and just defend his title against Aladdin and the genie was awesome, you really don't wanna mess with Jafar. Well even if Aladdin did end up winning the day, I think Jafar is still a pretty cool bad dude. I do recommend that if you get the chance to see this movie, take it, it's a fun sequel and I personally enjoyed it.<br /><br />7/10