*A lot of Spoilers*<br /><br />Almost all of my friends told me to watch this movie. "It's so sick", "Great Movie", "It's so badass", and "It is in a category of it's own"... well, I can honestly say that "The Boondock Saints" was one of the worst movies I have ever seen, and had it not been for Willem Dafoe, it would have easily been the worst movie of all time. (A title currently held by both The Exorcist II and The Amityville Horror). This movie is crap, there is no way around it. The cult status it has climbed to is baffling. The fact that many people enjoy this movie is beyond the realm of human comprehension. I cannot understand. It has a lousy story line, and it doesn't gel or make sense. The action is GARBAGE. I don't care what anyone says, it blows. Its cheesy, dull and anticlimactic... Half of the "action" is bad quick-cut scenes zooming in on aftermath, or shots of people shooting up a storm. For some reason people can't seem to shoot each other from ten feet away, and while dangling upside-down in a room full of gangsters, these jerks kept their bearings and shot up the joint, killing almost 10 mobsters (How can they shoot so well? why can't mobsters shoot? what was holding up the rope?). Why were they so smart? why did they pack meat for a living if they could speak multiple languages? How come he didn't die after jumping off a building at least 5 stories high into an alley? What the hell was the writer thinking? The acting, with the exception of Willem Dafoe (why did he have to crossdress? honestly...), was ghastly. The Irish accents were brutal, and the overdone villains were just as horrendous. The whole "we're catholic, but we execute Mobsters" thing was also swill. The prayer being spoken in unison was so lame!! Who writes this crap? The whole symmetric action shots of them lighting cigarettes, praying, shooting, etc. were so corny I was ashamed of myself for watching, and I was hoping nobody would come into the room and watch... I would have been reprimanded for watching such trash. The accents from the "Saints" were like a poor man's Mickey, from "Snatch"...a good movie. This movie is so flawed, so cheesy, and so boring I was shocked after I watched it. Also, another atrocity is that its being compared to Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction. How dare someone make that comparison? Those movies are masterpieces, with good actors, excellent dialogue, perfect direction, fitting music (this movie had the worst music I think I've ever heard in a film) and reasonable story lines. This movie was the polar opposite of that. Irish people should be appalled by this... anyone from Boston should be appalled by this... every person on the face of the earth should be appalled by this. What gets me the most is the alienation that people who don't like this movie feel. They become outcasts in the conversation... I Just don't get it... we need more movies like Commando, Terminator, Aliens, Rambo, Cliffhanger, or Predator... hell, even Marked for Death or Cobra (that's right, 1986 Sly Stallone) is better than this. Its a sad day when people think that Matrix movies and this refuse are excellent action films. Shed a tear for a near dead genre. I wouldn't recommend this to anyone, unless you want to watch it in order to make a subsequent film look really good. ½ star/ 5. This movie is on par with Jaws 4 and Barb Wire... despicable... May god have mercy on Troy Duffy's soul.