OK, so catatonia may be a made up word, but there is nothing more horrifying than trying to watch this "film" without the use of the fast forward button on your remote. "A Night of Horror" is quite possibly the worst film, video release, or hunk of plastic ever made. I would be ashamed to use this garbage for a paperweight. Everyone who "starred" in this "movie" should be flogged to a torturous death.<br /><br />Here is a brief rundown of the entire film, which I had to stomach, as it was one of the worst 75 minutes of my life. "Spoilers" are included, I guess, though there's nothing to spoil. The movie starts off with some character walking into what looks like an abandoned building. He meets the main character of the movie downstairs, who is intoxicating himself out of depression. This figure is grotesquely 70-ish, with a soupstrainer mustache, bell bottoms etc. throughout the entire film. After about a half hour(or what seemed to be a half hour) of the two talkin about things you can't understand, because they're cleverly mumbling(I guess the director wanted to build a sense of mystery) we switch to a scene with the 70's guy, 2 chicks and another dude, who is the worst actor I've ever had the displeasure of viewing(though all the others are horrible), all step into an RV for a road trip. Disgustingly mirthful music plays now for about 10 minutes non-stop, the same music being played at least a dozen times throughout the remainder of the movie. The various sights of the road trip are displayed with never-before-scene glory, sights such as the side an back of the RV and the interstate. The never ending soundtrack continues, sounding like a poor MIDI file stuck on auto-replay. As for the film quality during the course of the movie, I wil not even delegate it to the ranks of old reel-to-reel films. Back to the "plot". Ok, the 70's dude keeps on hitting on the dog chick in the back of the RV. She is married to the fat and lazy driver, who gives the worst acting performance in the history of, well, acting. So anyway, the dog face that 70's boy keeps flirting with has some psychic visions, the fat dude drinks some beer after the RV stops, then they all go wandering in the woods for some reason unbeknownst to me. They all meet up and start a bonfire, then a bunch of "ghosts" gather around and start talking about some crap you can't make out. A scene is then played in which a bunch of guys in civil war suits shoot at each other from long distance in slow-mo, with the victorious battle music of-you guessed it, the RV MIDI file rockin' out in the background! Then the film ends abruptly. I really can't recall anything else that happened, for I have tried to wash this aberration to the movie world from my mind. All that can be said is that it looks worse than the home video of an actual RV trip, it's filled with the nonstop chords of MIDI piano music, the acting is sub-human standard, and there is absolutely no plot or reason in this entire film. The only suggestion I have is not to rent this movie if you see it in your local video outlet, it may make you become the biggest Plan 9 from Outer Space fan ever. 1/10