Another Joan Crawford movie. You know, there are these actors and actresses who, once they appear on screen, they manage to control everything and have everyone focus on them and only them, and Crawford is one example of such people. Now I don't mean this in a bad way. In fact, it's rather admirable that one can have so much charisma as to be the center of attention all the time, but one side effect to this is that the people around such characters often don't get the attention that they deserve. <br /><br />This happened to me with QUEEN BEE. It was a Crawford movie, indeed, but it was also an ensemble cast- the characters, Eva, Avery, Judd, Jen, and Carol were all part of one story. But strangely enough, I can only remember Joan Crawford after the end. I should tell you that this Crawford's presence in this movie is very strong, but perhaps that is not even news for all those who have seen GRAND HOTEL, in which she had the same strong presence even alongside Greta Garbo, who is known to have such centralizing effects herself. <br /><br />It is true however, that Crawford is the focus of the story. The movie centers around her character: everything happens because of her and everything doesn't happen because of her. I can't say that I understood Eva completely, but I did try to sympathize with her and I do. She was a "bitch," yes, but not wholly. After all, she wanted her husband's love like any other normal woman. She just wanted to be loved, didn't like being lonely, and went to great measures to get what she wanted but as we all know, it doesn't quite work out as we had planned, and that's the story of Eva Philipps, the Queen Bee.<br /><br />This film is tense, with all of the characters engaged in nervousness, bitterness and hate. It starts out light enough but the atmosphere changes soon enough. It won't be your simple "cup of tea" and it's the type of movie that makes you think. I like movies that make me think, and I recommend this movie to anyone who has the same taste as me.