I read some of these reviews last night before I watched this film, and now I find it hard to believe that some people were actually unsure as to whether this is a comedy or a horror. Firstly, does it have to be one or the other? It is clearly both. And more importantly, who cares? It is what it is to you, it shouldn't matter what others classify it as, you either like it or you don't. I hate it when reviewers say things like "it's probably supposed to be funny but it just fails." YOU might find it funny, it's one of those things, like some people hate ben stiller, some don't. I was unsure about whether it would be any good after reading some of the negative reviews, but ended up disagreeing with them. It's a mostly horror-comedy, there's not that many bits meant to be funny, but if you like that kind of thing, you'll probably like it. It's about teens which might put some people off, but I didn't see anything wrong with the acting and the story line left room for some mick-taking of this kind of film, Asian and elsewhere (mostly America). I dunno what everyone's problem is about girls with long black hair now, I expect there are many stories of female ghosts in Asia and most Asian women have black hair, just don't watch them if they bore you, at least they're better at telling ghost stories than the Americans! Anyway this film has all kinds of ghosts. And is much more psych than gore like the others.<br /><br />The things I like most about this film are that its more realistic than most. You know the times when you feel cold towards the characters because they don't act human, especially when they're too brave, and in real life, comedy is a massive element. There'd be scary moments if you and some mates went to an abandoned hospital, but there'd be funny ones too. And I don't know what you think but I reckon duvets are definitely monster-proof. That's not to say I want to watch this kind of horror all the time, but someone's gotta make one, and I'm glad they did it well. Also, it's still pretty scary in parts but in a more lighthearted way when comedy arises, and it still looks great. I thought it was scarier than the first 2 which I thought were quite heart warming. I thought the report card kid bit and the breakdance bit were ace, and I didn't notice any annoying techno.