Having really loved the first two films I was really looking forward to the third part. I knew going in that the Pang Brother's were going to have something different for me with this one. I knew that the brothers wanted to make each episode in the Eye films to be completely different but still stay true to the heart of the films and I very much welcomed that. The Eye was more of a classic ghost story, The Eye 2 was more of a drama and The Eye 10 I knew was going to be more of a teen movie. Sounded good to me. So what did I think of the film. I loved it a lot...it wasn't as bad as everyone said it was, in fact it was everything I hoped it would be...but was it better than the first 2? Short answer no with a but. This film doesn't try to be like the first two, it's is own film just like the second was to the first. It has it's own story to tell in it's own way and does a great job of staying on it's own. When a lot of people talked about this film they said it was wanna be Scream and tried to be all funny and stuff and truth is...it's nothing like Scream. I consider this film more like a throw back to classic 80's horror stuff like Night of the Demons or even Sleepaway Camp 2...meaning it's suppose to be fun then a straight forward horror movie. That's what I liked best of the film, I loved it's modern feel...a lot of ghost movies are always told in that classic kind of way you know and it was just great seeing it done with that 80's feel but still feeling modern. I liked the new take, I loved the faster pace, I loved the directing and I loved how the film still keep a lot of it's religious sub plots. I loved the new takes on how to see ghost and I loved what happened due to that. The movie still had a lot of scares and never once did it let up. I also loved some of the humor thrown into the film that just had a smile on my face. I just loved the whole feel and vibe to the film.Once again the Pang Brothers are masters behind the camera and the kick ass shot. They handle the acting and the scares very well. While this film isn't perfect, I liked the 3 rd act but just wished they would have done it differently and I could have really done without the fart joke...this film is a real great watch and just plain fun. I'm sure some fans of the first film aren't going to buy into this one much but if you watch it as it's own film...it's a real treat. In a world where every other ghost story is a wannabe The Ring, it's nice feeling a fun just have fun with it's self and still be smart and cool as can be. All in all...a great show. Bring on the next one.What a great series of films.