What's there to really say? Absolutely enjoyable! Where should I start?<br /><br />I think it's best to start with Angus Bethune, the fat kid who just doesn't seem to get a break, until an age-old enemy, Rick, rigs an election so that Angus can dance with his long-time crush, Melissa. Angus is played by Charlie Talbert, who was reportedly "discovered" at a Wendy's in Illinois. Talbert plays the role with warmth, heart, sarcasm, and conviction, and he does it so wonderfully (and this being his first film!), he can potentially be one of film acting's best-kept secret. He is sure to have a successful career in acting, pending that we do see him in another film. Angus' interaction with his granddad (played by George C. Scott in possibly one of his most memorable, though short, roles since "Patton") is very interesting to pay attention. The supporting characters, geeky Troy, beautiful Melissa, and Rick the pest (played by a more credible James Van der Beek), form part of the fabric of appealing characters that dot the film. The film would have been better though if we knew a little more about these people, so as to make it a character study.<br /><br />I've read some comments from expert reviewers about this film. Most agree that Charlie Talbert has a great future in film ahead of him, but that the film itself is "formulaic" and "predictable". This is quite true, and that was one of the fears I had before watching this film. Yet after watchng this film I'm now absolutely convinced that even "formulaic" and "predictable" films can be great, provided that they're executed properly and with heart, as it was with this film. In the case with "Angus", it's a mix of originality (a tongue-in-cheek script and direction) and tried-and-true motifs. There's even a character twist (I won't say who) that threw me a bit off-guard near the end!<br /><br />In this case, it's Patrick Read Johnson's direction that made this movie very memorable. The cinematography was vivid (or blight) and colorful. The dance sequence at the ball with Melissa and Angus is one of the most beautiful (and beautifully shot) in my memory. The soundtrack is excellent: Green Day is at their top of the game; the Goo Goo Dolls still haven't made the grade; the songs form a nice snapshot of great alternative and punk music reminscent of its time. My personal favorite is Ash's "Jack Names the Planets". Even some of the camera shots (especially with the irises to open and close the film) are dazzling.<br /><br />Although admittedly it's not destined to be a classic (or at least any time soon), "Angus" is a genuinely warm, funny, bitterly sarcastic, though strictly Hollywood, picture of that ever-so-turbulent, confusing, and questionable time of our lives known as high school. Watch it and you'll at least enjoy it. I did! I gave it a nine.