I suddenly find myself opinionated differently from everyone else a lot lately. I have never been a big watcher of foreign films and probably have seen one or two prior to the Ringu Series. The American version of Ringu "The Ring" frightened me to death and I loved it but it took me some time to finally see the Japanese equivalents.<br /><br />The first film as I said previously in the review was much less of a horror film as it was an amazing thriller/mystery. It unraveled perfectly and started the amazing brickwork of an incredible world and story. Ringu 2 is the best follow up I could have asked for. People seem to be disappointed by it and I can't imagine why as it uses the perfect recipe for what a sequel should be.<br /><br />Ringu 2 picks up exactly where Ringu left off. Ryuji's assistant/student/and lover? Mai Takano is the main character in this one. She is disturbed and haunted by finding her professor's body. She is determined to uncover the story that has ended his life and many others. The rumor of the video tape has turned into a full fledged investigation by police and reporters and spreading fast. Reiko Asawaka has taken her son Yoichi into hiding after saving herself and her son from the videotape and Sadako's curse. The police are looking for her to question her and Takano wants to find her in order to find out more about the video tape. As the story continues Takano must stop Sadako once and for all and save Yoichi who has been possessed by Sadako's evil curse.<br /><br />The film brings back familiar faces from the original even those that have been killed off in the case of Ryuji. Ringu 2 doesn't only just work to follow up the original but actually works at adding to it in a big way. We are given further information and opens up a whole new ball of answers for questions that were posed in the original. We are given further information into the story of Sadako, the video tape, her parents, her past and why people have been dying. Also Ringu 2 definitely delves more into the Psychic aspect of not only Sadako but Yoichi who seems to have acquired power from Sadako and Mai Takano who seems to have been given power by Ryuji who was Psychically strong in the first movie. I found Ringu 2 to be downright twice as scary as the original even tried to be. There were some frightening scenes in this film and they seemed to try and go for the scares in this one. I felt Ringu 2 to be much more mainstream than the original with the addition of an action type story line and perhaps a rather confusing science fiction element but it fit nicely and was not overwhelming I thought. Taking us back to familiar locations from the original such as The Yamamura Inn and Ryuji's apartment was perfectly recreated. Also a chilling and wonderful ending once again in the well was amazing!! Anyone who loves horror series must check out Ringu and it's follow up. I have not seen the third yet but I will soon!! Although they are more of a thriller mystery, you can't miss out on these. I would only suggest that they find someone new to make fake blood ha ha. I am thrilled and eagerly awaiting The Ring 2 who is being directed by none other than Hideo Nakata who directed both Ringu films. Bravo!! 8/10