A group of sailors experience all sorts of events while on the SS Glencairn. John Wayne stars in this film as Ole, a Swedish sailor who has not seen his family in over 10 years. It was interesting seeing John Wayne in a movie where he is not a cowboy because that's what he is mostly know for. The festivities began when a group of Spanish women board the ship and bring fruit and smuggle rum for the sailors. This showed how lonely these sailors became while on board for such an extended period of time. The mood of the movie did change a few times. It changed once when the Spanish girls came on board and again when they finally reached land and were able to get drunk. The sailors began acting crazy and got drunk very quickly. The Spanish girls started resisting them and soon a riot broke out. Sailors began hitting each other and one sailor even took a broken rum bottle and stabbed a fellow sailor. You can easily tell how bored sailors become because of how they acted when the Spanish girls cam on board. The officers caught the Spanish girls bringing rum on the ship and did not pay them. The music plays a big role in setting the mood in the movie. The music has a lot of string instruments to give it a lonely slow paced feeling. When guys look out at sea, the music is slow and fairly depressing. One quote that caught my attention was when a sailor said, "When a man goes out to sea, he should give up thinking about shoreLand don't want him no more." To me I think he was saying that there is no point feeling sad about not being able to be on land because there is nothing you can do to change where you are. Each sailor who survived had to wait just as long as the next man to reach land. This movie exhibits how life as a sailor could change. Two sailors, Smitty and Yank died while on board of Glencairn and Drisk died at the end when he was aboard Amindra and it got torpedoed. You feel bad for the lives they live because they go through the same routine for such a long time and they see the same people everyday without seeing their loved ones. To me, it would become really frustrating because I would get frustrated doing the same things and seeing the same people. The sailors show their boredom by looking for conflict. They have suspicion that Smitty is a spy and search through his belongings and tie him up. He was falsely accused after Drisk reads the letters he received and realizes he was wrong the entire time. Soon after a storm hits and kills Yank, an air attack takes the life of Smitty. It was strange how he died because he was on a row boat hanging on the side of the ship, and when he got shot, the tarp just covered him and nobody really knew when he died. During the air attack, the fighter planes dropped bombs that didn't hit the ship, but the machine guns did and took the life of Smitty. The way he dies all by himself was similar to the lonely feelings the sailors often felt. Ole, the Swedish sailor also expresses his loneliness when they arrive on land and he tells the woman at the bar about how he hasn't seen his family in almost 10 years. He was the only one out of the crew members that was going to board the Amindra ship. His drunk shipmates pulled him off the ship before it left, but again one man was left out of their crew after he was knocked unconscious. A sailor at the end of the movie read a headline in the newspaper that read "AMINDRA TORPEDOED" and so it ended another lonesome sailor died.