This is a great HK action flick and like most of them, it's all about the action. Essentially the whole industry in HK is more or less like the American B-movie action market, starring the likes of Dolph Lundgren, Van Damme and of course Cynthia Rothrock. The main difference though is the high level of quality in the action of the HK movies. They feature the inane plots and hokey acting of DTV American movies but my god can those guys do good action.<br /><br />This film is virtually plot free but of course that isn't important. What it does have is action legend Yuen Biao (Best known as one of the three dragons, with Jackie Chan and Sammo Hung). In the 80's Biao was one of the three favourite sons of the genre. Arguably Biao was also the better fighter than Chan, but of course Chan did the most amazing stunts of the three legends. Also at the time perhaps the most popular female action star in HK was Cynthia Rothrock. She was big box office fodder and drew in the punters even before Michelle Yeoh became the number one bad ass beaatch! I have to say I like Rothrock. She is one mean lady and kicks buttock like the best of them. The high kicking carnage dished out by Cynthia, particularly in her HK movies is just hot, really darn hot! Rothrock moved away from those movies in the early 90's and had a brief slew of theatrical films in the US before dropping into the DTV market where she remains a popular draw. The problem is that American cinema doesn't spend the time and energy on the fight sequences like they do in HK. Nowadays the average Rothrock fight scene looks very conventional, while of course still remaining sexy by the sheer fact she is kicking booty. Righting Wrong of course is full to the brim of high octane and imaginative fights and the film never drags. Rothrock is superb in the action department and has some great fights, amongst others a great fight with Biao, while Biao is also superb, showcasing some amazing moves and great stunts. This is simplistic entertainment and a lesson to American movies on how it's done. ***