For a porn film to rise above being just another entry in the genre, it really needs more than just wall to wall sex; and it is with that in mind that I name Pretty Peaches as one of the best porn films ever made. Alex De Renzy's masterpiece has so much more than just sex and actually manages to hold the audience's interest throughout with a combination of good humour, some interesting characters and a suitably wacky plot line that leaves plenty of room orgies, enemas and accidental incestuous relations. The 'Peaches' of the title refers to our heroine; a young and very naive girl who drives a jeep. She's off to see her father get married and after doing so, sets off on her own way; much to the dismay of her father. She ends up roaring across a field in a jeep and has a crash resulting in her being knocked out. A couple of guys find the girl and decide to help her, by raping her while unconscious. She wakes up with amnesia and the two guys agree to let her stay with them; on the condition she gets a job. Peaches then sets off to find who she 'really' is.<br /><br />The lead role is taken by prolific porn star Desiree Cousteau, and she's just great! Films such as The Devil in Miss Jones have made me not expect much in the looks department from the lead actresses, but Cousteau bucks that trend nicely. The curvaceous buxom beauty is a delight to watch, even if her acting is not always the greatest! There's plenty of sex in the movie; but the sex scenes themselves don't go on and on as is the case with some other porn movies and they serve their purpose really well. The fact that they don't go on and on means that there's plenty of time for the film to move along quickly which ensures it doesn't get boring. Director Alex de Renzy obviously has a sense of humour too and parts of the movie (such as the build up to the rape scene towards the start of film) are very funny. As the film draws to a close; there's less focus on characters and story and more on sex and the film culminates in one great big orgy scene with a rather shocking sting in its tail! Overall, Pretty Peaches is without doubt one of the best porn films of the seventies and for that reason is highly recommended viewing!