I have owned this movie for quite some time, mainly because SMG is in it and I'm a big fan of BTVS, but I had never gotten around to watching it until last night. I have to say, I was pretty disappointed. I mean, I'm supposed to feel sorry for this guy? He's shamelessly sleeping with two women at the same time, and getting tripped out on LSD. What do I care if he gets out of his mess? He's not a good guy, in spite of the fact that the movie half-heartedly attempts to make him seem so, since he is trying to get money together for his parents to replace their home, which got blown away by a tornado. Here's a quick summary: This guy is going to Harvard, and plays basketball for them. He is sleeping with SMG's character, whose father is a big time mobster. He is also sleeping with Joey Lauren Adams' character, who happens to be one of his teachers. His parent's home gets blown away by a tornado. He wants to help them replace it, so he asks SMG to ask her father for the money. She says he can have the money if he promises to fix a basketball game that has been bet on, so even more money can be won. The FBI gets wind of this, and try to cause a lot of trouble for SMG and her father. They attempt to get this guy to turn them in. The FBI team (a boy and a girl who his other girlfriend happens to be having regular threesomes with) let his other girlfriend know what's going on, and she tries to get him out of it. While all this chaos is going on, this guy is totally tripped out on LSD, hearing voices, hallucinating, etc. Pretty ridiculous. So, basically, my main problem with this movie was that I didn't like any of these characters. None of them seemed like good people, like anyone that I would care much one way or the other what happened to them. No sympathy for anyone. So, I was actually sitting through the whole movie, hoping it would be over soon because I was tired of watching it. I wouldn't recommend it to anyone. The only good point: I thought Sarah Michelle Gellar did a good job with her part. She was very believable. I didn't think of her as Buffy once during this movie.