Dracula: Legacy is the third and final installment to Dracula series. I saw the first one and liked the whole storyline but it was poorly executed. I saw the second one..........I adored Stephen Billinton as Dracula. One of the finest Dracula acting jobs I've seen yet. But the second Dracula made no sense with the first one....so I didn't really like that one. Then for old times sake I thought to myself "why not!" So I rented the last one. I just recently spent 2 weeks in Romania and found the interpretation of Romania to be offensive. This country had it's revolution in 89 and is becoming much more powerful....it's finding it's place and regaining it's footing. In some area's it's very poor but it's not creepy. But, the Hollywood Romania will always be there so "c'est la vie!" There are some pros and cons to this movie. A pro is it's shot in the mother country that created spookiness. I have to say some Gypsy Clans are really creepy there. I really enjoyed Jason London as Luke. He is a very comedic actor but can relay very deep levels of emotion. I loved it in the end when he kills Elizabeth. Oh yes...Jason Scott Lee....oh Jason Scott Lee....why must you ruin every scene you're in. Lee seems liked a very nice man but he makes Orlando Bloom looked like an Academy Award Winner. The character it's self it pretty cool....don't get me wrong....he has some good points but overall weak performance. The character of Julie really bugged me at first. But Westcourt really proved herself in her death scene. Diane Neal was terrible in Dracula 2....but she really proves herself in Dracula 3 to be a good actress. She looked very sensual. Hauer was OK, he wasn't good and he wasn't bad. He seemed to babble a lot through this movie, from what I heard he improvised a lot of his lines..which would explain that. Also, I think my favorite character was that random guy that collected girls for Dracula to feed on. He was unintentionally really funny. He reminded me a lot of that child kidnapper from Chitty Chitty Bang Bang. I was really drawn to him for some strange reason. Now, I think one of my favorite scenes in this whole movie is strangely the vampire pit. It was so vulgar and primal that you just had to love it. I also liked that the writers touched immortality and it's toll. That Dracula once handsome and alluring, now takes a worn out and gaunt look. They could have shown and explained it much better though. And what was up with those stupid TVs??? It was so confusing.<br /><br />Another scene I really liked was the circus vampires attacked Lee in the street. It was really creepy and cool. Then......I loved the ending. It really proved it's self in the end. Good and evil....black and white....and the grey lines in between were touched beautifully in the end. When I look back on this movie I think it was a pretty good straight to DVD kinda movie.