Referring to "Rabid Grannies" as it being a great movie would be a crime against all forms of good taste, but it's nevertheless a film that every horror-loving Belgian should be sincerely proud of! Our very own demented splatter flick, yay! And, all prejudices of myself being Belgian aside, one of the most entertaining splatter flicks of the entire 80's decade! If you manage to track down a fully uncut version (loads of copies suffer from severe censorship, despite the rights being owned by Troma Productions), you will be exposed to outrageous gore, absurd characters and over-the-top situations. Screw build up of tension and story lines that make sense! Acting performances, continuity or editing aren't important neither and we definitely don't care about decent dubbing jobs! All that matters here is insanity and GORE! The Remington family members all gather at their spinster aunts' mansion for a birthday celebration. They all hate each other, and the old bags even more, but there's quite an immense fortune to inherit soon, so they all behave friendly. The party really gets started when the aunts open a present coming from a banished nephew that turns them into mad carnivorous monsters! No matter where the invitees hide throughout the house, the hungry grannies will find them. The first 30 minutes are rather tame in the gore-department, but still amusing because of the hilariously inept acting and crazy character drawings. We have pretentious lesbians, a cowardly priest and a businessman dealing in weapons. Once the grannies are loose, the film turns into a non-stop splatter party with no limits or boundaries. We're treated to cheesy decapitations, pieces of brains flying around, disembowelment, hacked up torsos and ripped out eyeballs! In order to get rid of that last remaining bit of political correctness, this movie even features the sadistic dismemberment of an 8-year-old girl's legs. Now here's something you don't see every day! "Rabid Grannies" will most likely rank among the favorites of undemanding Troma-groupies, but it's even good enough to recommend it to fans of Peter Jackson's earlier work ("Bad Taste", "Meet the Feebles"). Bon Appetit!