Going into this film I had no idea what the true story line was. Is it a time travel film, is it a sci-fi film or is it a murder mystery? Well it's a little of each of these. Put behind you images of flying Delorians traversing through time and just let the film soak you in it's original story of what if. What if you could change history and bring back the ones you lost long ago. What if that power came with a price. Is it better to leave things as is or if given the chance to change the world you live in would you? These questions and more rise in this film that ask, would you, could you, should you. Dennis Quaid, in one of his best roles, is a fire fighter from New York in 1969. His hobby is ham radio when not rescuing people from near death in the line of duty. His son John is just a child and dreams of being a baseball player when he grows up. But in the realities of life somethings were not meant to be. John grows up and becomes a police officer working on the homicide squad in 1999, and his father never made it out of a burning building in 1969. On October 10th 1969 sun spots rise up the day before the fatal day in the warehouse. 30 years later the same event happens on the same day in 1999. John finds his fathers radio and begins to play with it and finds a man who seems to have the same call letters and last name. The sun spots allow his radio waves to traverse 30 years into the past to his father. He can save his life with the knowledge of the future and have him back in the present. This comes at a deadly price for in 1969 there is a serial killer who preys on nurses. Johns mother is a nurse. Together John and his father must stop this killer from taking more lives in a game of cat and mouse that unfolds, reverses, and progresses over the 30 year gap. Memories disappear and new ones open in there place, people survive and others die. All this leads to a fantastic final battle of old and new.<br /><br />This really is a film not to be missed. Fans of thrillers, sci-fi and action will all be pleased with this film.