Taylor Callum (Alyson Michalka) and her slightly younger sister, Courtney (Amanda Michalka) are the daughters of a fairly well-off dairy owner. In such a light, their spending habits are monumental and they even divide up the "color scheme" of their yearly wardrobes so that they don't duplicate any outfit between them. Yet, one day, even their usually complacent father has reached the end of his rope. Small wonder. Taylor caused a neighbor's truck to end up in a pond and both girls managed to set the kitchen on fire through their carelessness. Father Callum decrees that the girls will work in the family dairy to pay for their mistakes. This is indeed a harsh punishment, as the girls know nothing about the "work ethic" and are astounded to find that they have to get up at 5:30 am and work eight hours a day! Yet, when their father goes on an extended vacation, the dairy suddenly takes a downward turn, thanks to some skullduggery by one of the high ranking employees. It is up to the girls to figure out how to save the jobs and the essence of their father's business. Can they do it, even as Taylor attention is diverted towards a local dairy farmer's son and Courtney has her eye on a handsome foreign exchange student and her debutante ball? This is a charming film aimed at young girls and their families but, truly, enjoyable for females of almost any age. The two young stars have their "clueless" act down pat and the other performers are quite nice, too, especially the good-looking young males that are the object of the girls' affections. The dairy country setting is lovely beyond words and is another reason to see the film, absolutely. All other production values are high as well. However, on the costuming, the girls' outfits are of, sadly, the now-normal, far-from-modest variety (lowcut tops and short skirts) that might make the film objectionable for some viewers. Yet, the movie's heart is in the right place as its lessons of hard work, perseverance, and thinking of others are a top priority. If you are looking for a "nice" film to show a girl-oriented audience, this one rings up as a true winner. For, truly, females from 10 to 80 and beyond will find the flick to be a "mother's milk" for their romantic souls