Outrageous, ridiculous, annoying, seemingly made on-the-cheap, and yet one of the most endearing comedies of the 60s/70s. Such contrasts in this film! It is entirely made up of 100% stereotypes: Lenny's transparent con-man, Lila's funny/sad nebbish, Kelly's Ice Goddess, Kelly's father's WASP image, Kelly's Mother's...well...Mother image. And yet at that moment in the restaurant when Lenny breaks the news to Lila over that half-slice of pecan pie, our hearts just break for her, and Lenny's feeble, yet honest (although ultimately self-serving) attempt to comfort her also touches us, as does Kelly's joie de vivre and passion for Lenny, and her parent's obvious conflicting feelings of protection, love and knowing they have to let go. The dialogue is as delicious as that pecan pie (not to mention Lila's Egg Salad and her candy bar in bed). It is sort of a guilty pleasure. Much of the movie is of people being sort of cruel and insensitive - acting only on impulse and immediate feelings, rather than maturity. But the way the film progresses from one brilliantly written scene to another, we can't wait to see what will transpire next, and we somehow end up caring so much for everyone in the film (even though they often don't care all that much for each other!) Favorite moments: 1. the ENTIRE road trip down the East Coast as the Honeymoon starts to end before it even begins. 2. Lenny's "laying out all his cards" for Kelly's Dad (as Lenny does his monologue, and Kelly's Dad responds with his hysterical descriptions of preferring a lit bomb in his mouth rather than having Lenny court his daughter, look at the combination bemused/concerned reactions of Kelly and her Mom--priceless scene). 3. that heartbreaking restaurant scene, and Lila crying out: "Oh Lenny, you're dying!!!!" - I never saw that response from Lila coming--again, priceless! 4. The Dinner scene in Minnesota with Lenny quoting shamelessly from an editorial in the local paper. Talk about clever and unexpected dialogue! This film is an absolute gem, hasn't dated one iota, and is a genuinely bittersweet comedy guaranteed to entertain, but which also somehow manages to resonate with some very real truths about love, relationships, ego and happiness.