So taking off for the Santa Cruz Film Festival I had expectations of this movie already. From everything I read and seen about it. I can truly said it blow my expectations right out of the water. There is really no way to tell you how amazing this film was. It's one that you have to see for yourself. Every thing about it was awesome! From the cast to the script and the settings. I laugh and almost got a little teary eyed at one point. And what so cool we go to see it in HD! The characters were written very well. Each one was different in many ways but in some way they all related to reach other, and what's so great is that it's not something you pick up on right away. More toward the ending you start to see what it is. For a movie about friends it didn't come as fake. Like most movies about friends it's so Hollywood (aka superficial). Ten Inch Hero didn't give me that feeling once.<br /><br />What I like about the movie was that was not 100% predicable. Yes it had it moments when the wheels where spinning in my head and I was able to call it before it happened but it also keep my guessing and took a few turns I never would have guessed. Like Trucker's past. The way they set it up for us to find out was funny, but when it came to open up about it, it was heart warming.<br /><br />Same thing with Piper, Tish, and Jen road trip they take. That whole part of the movie was wonderful. Three friends on a journey but two for them are there to have the ones back just in case. I don't want to spoil the scene by telling you what happens cause it's just so awesome. When the scene end all I could think was wow that's there is a set of real true friends.<br /><br />As far as the ending goes, yes it ended happy but not every thing was turned out like you would have thought. For me there are still a few questions open. But to tell you the truth it couldn't have end any better. Not sure I would have been happy if I got everything answered.<br /><br />OK now on to my rant about Priestly! Oh man I don't think Jensen will ever stop blowing me out of the water with his acting! He so rocks! Priestly is something else. He is smart, funny, sweet, witty, unique and just made you melt. The first time we meet Priestly his entrance it so dynamic and fun you can't help but fall in love with the guy. Yes he looks different them most people with the crazy Mohawks (the multi color one was to die for), piercing and tattoos but his personality is what just grabs you in and you can't let go of it. He makes all kinds of points thru out the movie but does them in such sarcasm that it makes you stop and think about it. The only lines where to go! A few times in the movie where a heart felt scene was taking place it jumped in with his one lines and just made the scene ten time better. Priestly will stand out in my mind forever. He the kind of guy you might just have to look at twice for before you judge him. Also what was so refreshing about the movie that Priestly in no way was like Dean Winchester, Jason Teague, CJ, Alec. Jensen made him his own! I so recommended that if this movie gets pick up that EVERYONE SEE IT! Cause you will enjoy it.<br /><br />So to wrap this up, all I have to say that the tampon scene will go down in history as one of the best ever! Priestly/Jensen so rocked it like no other.