In the 1st century AD. a brilliant and witty writer named Patronius wrote a book called " Satyricon " and from it's inception, became widely popular. Unfortunately for us, the revealing book was said to have displeased the emperor Nero who was so envious of the author, he banned and ordered it destroyed. What was saved are only fragments of the original manuscript and thus director Federiico Fellini was hamstrung to complete the entire work. Consequently, the movie is seen in disjointed form. Nevertheless, what was crafted became a superb masterpiece of film. Despite the fragmentary approach, one needs only remember the decadence of ancient Rome, the times and it's many religious practices together with it's ruler and sloven people to understand the movie. The fragmented story is of two Roman youths Encolpio (Martin Potter) the romantic adventurer and his close friend Ascilto (Hiram Keller) the equally adventurous, opportunistic but morally corrupt companion. Together they share their travels, fortunes, possessions and a special love for their slave boy Gitone (Max Born) whom they have to extricate from a popular stage actor and his troupe. Fellini's illusionary film takes extreme literary license with their travels as they are invited to visit the very gluttonous rich, the inclement poor and the visually grotesque. Suffering earthquakes and enslavement they visit a pagan temple where they discover a rarity, the worship of a Hemaphrodite as a God-like deity whom they kidnap. Unfortunately the creature dies and they escape. Fearing the wrath of the worshipers they again travel abroad but soon find themselves in chains on a Roman slave ship which is then seized and boarded and finally they end up on an island where they are once again planning to embark on another adventure to search and rescue their lost slave-boy. Although incomplete like a puzzle, one must remember the director is working with only the remnants of the original work. This film or what there is of it, still remains an Italian Classic. ****