"The Curious Case of Benjamin Button" though a fairy tale film of wonder, excitement and joys of unexpected moments broadens it's themes more in depth by showing the joys of life and love. Adapted from a short story from F. Scott Fitzgerald the direction from David Fincher(one who's known for his dark thrillers like:"Seven")is beautiful as many scenes were done so well with the wizard of computer magic and top notch camera work. Yet most catching of all is it's message proving that each have an expected path in life everybody has a fate. Yet this the main character lives his in a most unusual way he lives it backwards! Just imagine escaping the norm as we are so use to living and being in existence from birth being young and living life till our old body gives out. Only how about trying it in reverse! This film has star Brad Pitt(Benjamin Button) who's born as an 80 year old and during his life span he ages backwards all the way to an infant. Yet from the beginning of his start in New Orleans at the doorstep of an old folks home his life spans thru the years from his meeting of people and friends to travels and journeys of memories that anyone would cherish.<br /><br />Beginning with Button's friendship early on when he befriends a little female Daisy(wonderful performance from Cate Blanchett)and many years later as Benjamin starts to gain his youth he once again meets up with Daisy along the way after she's became a successful ballet dancer and the two will develop a passionate romance and love story that anyone would dream of it was just so true and simple.<br /><br />The film even though long moves well with it's journey of drama and life discovery for Benjamin as it's memorable for his working and making a living on a tugboat. And his first love and his being seduced by an elegant and sophisticated married lady(played gracefully by Tilda Swinton). The film is clearly a journey of life's common ups and downs that are common for all yet this man's story of age and living is most uncommon.<br /><br />Overall this film is a masterpiece of joy told thru flashback it's a real taste of a historical journey of love, drama, and changing and most of all it shows to be happy with yourself no matter what. It's fairy tale and magic theme is well enjoyed as the wonder and thrill to see of how one can age backwards and still enjoy life, have success and discover love is amazing. Remember everyone is different, it's okay to be different and everyone lives and does life in a different way. That's what this epic masterpiece of a film shows it's clearly an emotional, and touching picture to love for the way it shows how life can be in a different order yet still it shows that it can be memorable.