This is one of my favourite anti-impression comedy programmes. Written by and starring BAFTA and British Comedy Award nominated Leigh Francis as Avid Merrion and many famous masked faces. This is basically a gross impression programme with only a glint of realness to the people. As himself, Avid is a celebrity stalker who keeps Craig Phillips (from Big Brother 1) and his dead mother in his cupboards and always jumps to the opportunity to "meet" a celebrity. He also plays Craig David, The Bear, Mel B, Michael Jackson, Davina McCall, The Osbournes, Sir Elton John, Jonathan Ross (or "Woss"), Vernon Kay, Marilyn Manson, Will Young, Gareth Gates, Jordan or Jodie Marsh's tit, Harry Hill, Kat Slater and many more hilarious and gross celebrities. Guests have included: John Fashanu, EastEnders' Perry Fenwick, Jordan (Katie Price), Rod Stewart, Rachel Stevens, Kerry Katona (McFadden), the real Jonathan Ross, Drew Barrymore, Edith Bowman, Cameron Diaz, Beyoncé Knowles, Lucy Liu, the real Craig David, Neil Fox, the real Vernon Kay, Meat Loaf, the real Davina McCall, Dermot O'Leary, Emma Bunton, Kirsty Gallacher, Patsy Kensit, Peter Andre, Bob Mortimer, Melanie Brown (Mel B), Jamie Oliver, the real Osbournes (Ozzy, Jack, Kelly and Sharon) Mike Read, June Sarpong, Sean Pertwee, Jimmy Carr, Corrie's Samia Ghadie and Suranne Jones, Abi Titmuss, Jodie Marsh, Neil Ruddock and many, many more. It is sometimes disgusting, but still a hilarious entertainment sketch show. It was nominated the BAFTA for Comedy Programme or Series Award, and it was nominated the British Comedy Award for Best TV Comedy. Many spin-offs and special have followed, including Ho Ho Ho Selecta! which was number 87 on The 100 Greatest Christmas Moments. Craig David on Tour was number 32 and Michael Jackson's Crib number 19 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Sketches, the programme was number 11 on The 100 Greatest Funny Moments, it has been on all 100 Greatest TV Treats programmes so far, and Avid Merrion was number 27 on The World's Greatest Comedy Characters. Outstanding!