Definitely one of the true 'must see' films of the nineties, not only because it was the first to fully establish John Woo as the master of action movies and Chow Yun Fat as a superstar, but because it has had a massive influence on every action movie made since, and is easily one of, if not the best action movies ever. Slick, stylish, violent, funny, clever, with interesting characters, a superior plot which will keep you guessing, and filled with set pieces, explosions and chases, Hard-Boiled is a genuine classic, at least of its genre.<br /><br />Chow Yun Fat stars as Tequilla, a cop with a love of Jazz, a man whose skills are never questioned, but whose methods are sometimes checked as it usually ends up in death and demolition. He also enjoys the odd bit of existential musing, and is always trying to win back his love, who happens to be a superior. The film opens with a fight between cops and arms dealers which ends in the death of Tequilla's partner. Tequilla kills all possible subjects so they are left with no evidence as to who the boss is. We meet Tony, played by Leung who is one the arms dealers lead men. He does his job flawlessly, and at all costs, but doesn't want to see his boss harmed. However, when a rival with greater ambition wants to recruit him, Tony double-crosses his old boss. Tequilla intervenes and many more are killed. Tony and Tequilla continue to come into contact with each other, and we learn that Tony isn't who he appeared to be. Soon Tequilla works out where the massive armoury is, and a massive gunfight ensues, taking up the last 40 minutes of the film. Will Tequilla get revenge, will any more twists enter into the story, who will make it out alive? The film is incredibly clever for an action film, with many twists, but this is all the more astounding when you witness the level of action which takes place. The set-pieces are almost overwhelming, with so much going on at one time they beg to be re-watched repeatedly. Each actor is convincing, and it seems Fat and Leung were born for these roles. Everyone else is good as well. The final hospital scene has some of the best, most exhilarating action ever filmed, and no-one is safe as patients, doctors, kids, cops, and bad guys are all slaughtered. Almost every window is smashed, all manner of guns are fired, and Woo is on top form. His slow motion style, balletic gun play have never been better, and the one steadicam shot which goes into a lift, between floors and features many deaths and explosions, plus dialogue, is awesome, and must have been a nightmare to film. Few action movies can suck the viewer in like this does, so that we care about the characters and are not just watching vacantly. Hard-boiled succeeds on all levels, and must be seen by all action fans. It is the benchmark of the genre.<br /><br />10 out of 10