-the plot of the movie is very similar to the jokes we've heard about strippers in which they have to dance in order to pay off their college loans. this movie is exactly about that and as an added twist the main character has a son. at first she works at a shoe store but then meets two girls that convince her to work in a strip bar and whiles there she has to deal with overzealous customers and lesbian co-worker that wants to perform the baby making process with her.<br /><br />-more than a bad movie this is just bad film-making period. I have friends that could make a better movie with a $2000 budget and just 1 week to shoot the movie. they put the camera in places that doesn't let you know what the hell is going on and the timing between the actors is completely off. Instead of smoothly starting a line after someone is done the actors just stand there and wait for about 3 seconds before speaking. That kind of crap my fly well in a theater play or even a parody but in a movie like this that tries to be serious it just flat out fails. Of all the D level actors in the movie the only one that stands out and the only B level actor in the movie is Bernie Mac who is just flat out hilarious in this movie. it's a little hard to understand what he's say at times but when you do it's just pure magic. All the other actors are horrible as expected. They almost seem like the acting you find on the parodies they have at "Mad TV".<br /><br />-"Striptease" may have sucked but at least it actually had stripping and nudity in it, this movie on the other hand shows no skin what so ever and none of the girls are the least bit hot. Lisa Ray is attractive but she is not someone that I would want to have inappropriate relations with. I've never been to a strip club before *cough* but if the girls there are as bleh as the ones in this BS movie then I'll just stick to watching my neighbors strip down thanks to the hidden camera I installed in her bathroom.<br /><br />-Bernie Mac will make you laugh like crazy but apart from him there's nothing about this movie that's done right. not to mention none of the girls made me horny even once, but then again it was pretty cold in the apartment when I was watching it.