Released in the same year as the seminal double whammy of "Crossfire" and "Out Of The Past", Mitchum cemented his burgeoning reputation with his tortured performance in this brooding psychological western directed by Raoul Walsh. <br /><br />Jed Rand (Mitchum) is a man tormented by a childhood memory of traumatic violence that he can never fully grasp. Orphaned as a young boy, he is discovered cowering in a cellar by a strong minded cattle woman, "Ma" Callum (Judith Anderson), who flee's her homestead with young Jed and her own two children in tow. She brings him up as part of her own family, intent on harbouring him from the horrors of his past. Yet as years go by, Jed's restlessness and constant sense that the shadowy figures from the recesses of his mind are doggedly reaching after him slowly begin to consume their relationship. Indeed, "Ma" may hold the key to unlocking his dark secret. <br /><br />Jed has a strong effect on the Callum family as they grow together. A deep love slowly blossoms between him and his step-sister, Thorley (Teresa Wright), but his step-brother Adam (John Rodney) gradually begins to deeply resent his presence; something that is twisted into something even darker and more hateful when Jed returns home a war hero. Similarly, the sinister one-armed figure of Callum kinsman, Grant (Dean Jagger), constantly lingers on the periphery of Jed's life, seemingly orchestrating his enemies against him. As the secrets and lies begin to chafe away at the bonds between them, only the inevitable violence and conflict will bring the truth crashing down upon them. <br /><br />Told mostly in flashback, "Pursued" offers a twisted, noiresque vision of the west. The family turmoil plays out like a dust choked Greek tragedy; full of tragic unspoken truths, deep-rooted jealousy and hatred, sibling rivalry and an almost incestuous love between the three children. The death and violence that chases Jed throughout his life until his moment of revelation does not confront him head-on but instead through unseen rifle fire, unexpected pot-shots and shadowy figures that come to kill him in the dead of night. Even Jed's fractured memories are conveyed with flashes of light, incoherent background noise and a pair of clattering spurs seemingly dancing before the terrified childs face. <br /><br />Mitchum's performance is excellent. Brooding and manly, only occasionally hinting at the vulnerability beneath. It's almost impossible to take your eyes off him at times. Judith Anderson and Teresa Wright both match him in their key scenes too whilst the ever-watchable Dean Jagger is on fine form; playing it mean to the bone throughout. In fact, of the central players, only newcomer John Rodney really struggles to hit the right notes throughout. <br /><br />"Pursued" is a fine, fine film. Truly original with a tough yet poetic style, it is beautifully photographed, erotically charged and masterfully directed by the great Raoul Walsh. This is a must-see for all Mitchum fans.