I have watched all of Red Dwarf many times since I was little and always found it funny especially series 4-6. I loved the adventures they got in. The characters were brilliant too. The female Holly was much better and more stupid than the annoying bloke version. Every character had their funny moments. The main part of this review is to complain about series 7 and 8. They stink ferociously. There is no easier way to put it. I was hopeful after the first episode as that was quite good although still a little overdone with that annoying cinema effect they used but then in the next few episodes, Rimmer left and they brought Kochanski into the show. Not the original one played by Claire Grogan but the woman from Crime Traveller. She RUINED the show. Repeat: SHE RUINED THE SHOW. Her character was rubbish. Interacted with the rest of the cast badly and was NEVER funny. I was hoping every episode that she would leave but as she mysteriously appeared in the opening sequence I knew that would never happen. Along with that, Kryten completely changed. He went from Smart Alec android to some sort of whiny complaining love sick robot who over night developed a crush on Lister. I hated how the show was so serious. It's a sitcom not a drama. Star Trek had more humour than this. I was 10 when I anticipated this series and was genuinely looking forward to it. A few episodes later I was annoyed at school when everyone kept quoting it and saying it was really funny. It wasn't!!! For Series 8 I think they knew 7 had been too serious so they tried to make it funny again but they went too far and it turned into some sort of Benny Hill like slapstick, camp romp with stupid one liners and the addition of some awful actors along with Captain Hollister. Resurrecting the crew was a stupid BAD idea. The acting went down hill too. The episode with Canaries had "Bulla" from the 11 'o clock show. 8 had a very cheap n nasty flavour too it. I'm glad it ended when it did. I think it went crap because Rob Grant stopped writing and left Doug Naylor on his own. That and the 4 year time gap between 6 and 7. That said, the first six series are BRILLIANT