Tick Tock was a lot of fun to watch and kept me interested throughout. Two main roles are played by beautiful actresses that give very good performances. Carla (Kristin Minter) and Rachel (Megan Ward) scheme to kill Rachel's wealthy husband, Holden (David Dukes), to get the whole inheritance. All they need is a patsy who would do the dirty work for them. Carla's lover, Travis (Linden Ashby), seems a perfect choice. The two female characters have strikingly different personalities - Carla is devious and cold-blooded, she does the planning and keeps her cool when things go out of hand. She's the mastermind of the scheme. Her partner Rachel, on the contrary, is tearful, unsure of herself and loses her cool whenever something goes wrong. She completely depends on Carla for instructions what to do. She gets a bit annoying when she is constantly saying things like 'Now what?' 'Now what's the plan?' 'Are you sure?' 'What are we doing now?' 'Do you think that's a good idea?' 'I don't know,' I was thinking that maybe we should wait?' I don't think I can go through with this,' 'I don't think I can keep this up,' 'No, I can't, I can't, Carla,' 'What are we doing?!' and ... 'I think I peed my pants.' <br /><br />The events in the movie are not presented in order but the series of flashbacks provides the viewer with a more comprehensive insight into the intricacies of the plot and make the movie more intriguing.<br /><br />I enjoyed watching Tick Tock even though it has some flaws, the ending being the major one. Why would indecisive Rachel want to kill Carla when throughout the movie it was Carla who planned and managed the whole thing and encouraged Rachel to keep at it every time she was about to chicken out? What was she trying to achieve by doing so? Now that she's lost her smart partner she completely blows her chances of getting away with the crime. At that moment the movie lost logic to me. And it is beyond me why faint-hearted Rachel would hack Travis to death bashing him hard so many times with a shovel if earlier in the movie she was clearly disgusted at the way Carla killed Holden. Also, there was only one scene showing that Carla and Rachel were lesbians. The motivation for the crime would be more convincing if their relationship was developed better. Aside from the ending, Tick Tock is great fun to watch.<br /><br />I found the soundtrack pretty good.