What a frightening programme! This type of programme has got to signal the death throes of reality television (please, broadcasters, take the hint). One girl even gets her braces taken off her teeth for the occasion.<br /><br />The phrase "more money than sense" leaps to mind - maybe it's more a case of "how the other half lives". Watching the TV over my sister's shoulder, I am seeing a teenage girl go into an "I'm going to look stupid in front of all my friends" mood just because the entertainment is cancelled. Because, in essence, this is what it's about - looking good in front of friends and outdoing them. I overhear one girl tell the camera "This is what Priscilla's party is going to be like. Mine will be better" - another is obsessed with making a good impression in front of her friends - why can't she just enjoy her birthday party? Gratitude to the parents for organisation and the funds for such overindulgence doesn't get a look in.<br /><br />These silly kids, as someone else said, then throw tantrums at the slightest problem, so clearly they are not mature enough to handle such setbacks and probably haven't done enough in their lives to justify having such expense and attention being showered on them. This people truly must have more money than sense - when I was sixteen, my main occupation was keeping on top of my school work in preparation for my GCSEs, but these kids must be extremely lucky. School work doesn't even get a mention - obviously these people are wealthy enough that they don't have to care. (It wouldn't occur to them, for instance, that somewhere in the world, there are people living in the worst poverty imaginable, who would give anything for a fraction of the wealth spent on them. It wouldn't occur to them that there are 16 year olds waiting on tables or stacking supermarket shelves to make themselves a bit of spending money because their families are on the breadline. It wouldn't occur to them that there are people like me, trying to establish their own businesses, who go to local craft fairs selling home-made lavender bags and greetings cards who can come home with as little as £7.50 in earnings on a bad day. They live in another world entirely.) I don't know whether the parents of these girls are being walked all over in their children's quest to hire rappers and MCs and goodness knows what else as entertainment for what is basically a birthday party, whether they are knowingly overindulging their spoilt offspring or whether it is just that they are so rich that the expense of this kind of event is a drop in the ocean. Either way, it is scary beyond belief.