It used to be during the infancy of MTV that it meant a revolution for angry young teenagers. You sit back and watch Nirvana videos all day long. Now, I can trash talk this network until the cows come home.<br /><br />For those of you who are not familiar with "My Super Sweet 16," count your blessings. Here's the premise of the show: Some rich spoiled brat, whose parents are probably investment bankers who don't pay taxes, gets a super expensive and extravagant 16th birthday party. In this show you get to see what a prima donna he or she is. The parents will buy them luxury cars, Rolex watches, and have big celebrates perform at this event, and the teenager will go insane at the slightest infraction. I don't watch this show, because I actually have a significant IQ, but I've heard about some of the episodes on my local radio station.<br /><br />You see, these kids are the ones born with a silver spoon and eat fillet mignon and caviar whilst I'm stuck with leftover Pizza Hut. They were born spoiled and don't have to work, because their parents give them money and subject themselves to their demands. These kids will get a Lexus for the birthday and have a major temper tantrum if it's god forbid, the wrong color and what do the parents do? Return it to the dealer and buy the right color.<br /><br />This show is extremely insulting to people like me who did not come from money and actually had to work bottom-feeder jobs in order to earn money to buy a car. I bet these kids never worked a day in their life. When I was 16, I was doing physical labor that was actually dangerous, and I didn't get paid a fair salary and my parents didn't give out money to me like M&Ms. I would really love to see these kids do the kind of labor I was doing at that age. It presents these spoiled rich kids in an almost loving matter making its audience believe that there are no poor kids. To add salt in my wounds, people actually gobble this stuff up, albeit usually preteen girls who have nothing better to do than watch this and blog about how great the last party was on their myspace pages. If you have any shred of decency in your character, do not watch this show, or let your teenagers watch it.