Well...it doesn't get much more bizarre than this! To sum it up simply, Singapore Sling is a work of extreme cinema; featuring all manner of things from sadomasochism to incest...but it's shot in a style reminiscent of the classic film noirs from the golden age of cinema. The two styles offset each other constantly, and this gives the film an extremely surreal atmosphere as well as a completely unique style that ensures Singapore Sling is nothing like any other film ever made. The film was made in Greece, which makes it almost unique in its own right as Greece isn't a country famous for film-making. The plot focuses on a detective who is looking for a girl named Laura. One night, he stumbles upon two women burying a body and we are introduced to what has to be one of the most "offbeat" mother and daughters in cinema. We then follow the daughter as she details the things her and her mother get up to, before the weary detective; who is given the name 'Singapore Sling', stumbles into the pair's home and ends up becoming 'involved' in more insane games.<br /><br />The film is shot in beautiful black and white, and director Nikos Nikolaidis does an excellent job of making the film as picturesque as possible. In fact, the film is so damned pretty that even morbidly sick practises such as a mother having lesbian sex with her daughter don't seem quite so grotesque when seen in this film. The film only features three performers, but it never gets boring even though the film runs for over 110 minutes. The director somehow manages to keep things interesting despite the fact that the film often retreads similar ground. Much of the credit for the film must go to Michele Valley and Meredyth Herold, who both provide brilliant performances as the mother and daughter central duo. Panos Thanassoulis is good also as the title character, but he remains silent for most of the film and never gets a change to fully impress. The film plays out well throughout, and it all boils down to a suitably sick finale which gives credence to both its pornographic and film noir styles. Overall, Singapore Sling is a fabulous piece of celluloid which needs to be experienced by everyone who considers themselves a fan of cinema!