Singapore Sling was one of my very first forays into the world of underground and/or extreme cinema. Years later, I've seen many, many such films, but SS still holds a very special place in my heart, simply because not only is the film truly demented, but it's also very well done, which is rare for an exploitation film.<br /><br />The plot concerns one anonymous detective who, in search of his long lost lover, gets shot (the exact circumstances surrounding him getting shot are never explained.) He manages to crawl to a nearby house, where he is found by the mother and daughter who live there.<br /><br />It should be noted, at this point, that the mother and daughter are sick, kinky, incestuous lesbians with sadistic streaks.<br /><br />Anyhoo, after he has the fortunate opportunity of falling into the aforementioned duo's clutches, the real action begins. He is nicknamed "Singapore Sling" by the pair, is tied to a bed, and is humiliated in various ways (one particularly interesting one being when the Mother urinates in his face while administering electroshock.) After a while, the film just kinda drifts off the deep end, as if it wasn't strange enough already...illustrative of this are the famous "dinner scenes", which have to be the most memorable parts in the movie, and the Daughter furiously ramming a kiwi into her vagina. All this is set against the backdrop of the Mother-Daughter team seriously screwing with Singapore Sling's head by pretending that the Daughter is Laura (the woman who he is looking for). This all comes to a head in the ending, however, which has to be one of my favorite endings in any movie ever. I WILL SAY NO MORE! Overall, SS is excellent. Shot in beautiful black and white, it's pure sleaziness combined with genuinely good acting skills on the parts of the characters involved make it a treat to watch. I do, however, have two minor complaints. My first is that the movie could have been a bit shorter. My second doesn't have to do with the movie, but the DVD. I got the Synapse DVD of this film, and the original burnt in subtitles that the film originally had are covered by large, annoying black boxes in the altered version. This is far worse than the original version, so I just turned that feature off. The DVD in itself doesn't have anything on it, other than the feature film, a photo gallery, and trailer. That's it...it's really a quite bare presentation. I would've like to know a little more about the background of the film, personally.<br /><br />All in all, though, it's great. Highly recommended.