How do you review of film that is too bizarre, too extreme and generally too unique for words? Probably just by stating that you should track it down yourself and be as amazed as the rest of us were! "Singapore Sling" is indeed one of the craziest Euro-cult movies ever released; a totally 100% original hybrid between 1940's film-noir and relentless 1970's drive-in exploitation, shot in elegant black and white and introducing some of the most eccentric characters movie-goers have ever beheld. Not a single taboo is left untouched in Nikos Nikolaidis convoluted screenplay, whether it involves tasteless sexual perversions or insanely violent tendencies, and yet – in some inexplicable fashion – it's all beautifully illustrated in the eye of the camera. Nikolaidis main inspiration clearly goes back to the golden years of widely acclaimed noir-cinema, particularly Otto Preminger's "Laura" and John Huston's "The Maltese Falcon", as the primarily storyline introduces a lonely detective desperately seeking for his lost and unreachable muse Laura. But this only covers a small part of "Singapore Sling's content, as the investigation leads him to the secluded mansion of a demented Greek lady and her equally insane daughter. Mother and daughter spend their days mourning over the recently deceased man of the house (whoms body they still keep around, mummified in the attic) and enacting sex-laden role plays of how they eliminated previous perpetrators. When Singapore Sling – the detective's nickname – literally tumbles down on their doorstep, he promptly becomes an important part in their deviant universe of unusual lusts and fetishes. Apart from maintaining their incestuous lesbian relationship, the women now also compete for the sexual interest of their male guest, and it doesn't take too long before ambiguous conspiracies are thought up.<br /><br />"Singapore Sling" implements a seriously inventive narrative structure, with all the three lead characters regularly facing the camera to talk to the audience. This perfectly portrays their different persona's without reverting too much to overlong acquaintances. The male lead is mysterious and a bit unworldly, the young girl is definitely crazy but mainly docile because she doesn't know any better and the adult lady can't possibly be categorized. She nearly always repeats her lines – once in French, once in English – and looks genuinely uncanny with her wild hair-styles and penetrating eyes. The odd couple's depraved sexual habits are extendedly & graphically shown, resulting in numerous jaw-dropping sequences including vomiting during intercourse, masturbating with all sorts of kitchen devices & fruit, urination, necrophilia and bondage. But apart from the strong sex, "Singapore Sling" also contains other repulsive and unusual viewing material, most notably the ladies' nauseating eating rituals. Not only does the food (human leftovers?) look disgusting, their table manners are sickening enough to put you off of having dinner for the next couple of weeks. How can a movie stuffed with such a large amount of extreme filth still come across as watchable, let alone stylish, you ask? I have no idea, but director Nikolaidis succeeds seemly without efforts in making his film appealing to audiences much wider than just sick puppies and sexually frustrated lunatics. "Singapore Sling" is compelling and oddly comical, constantly firing off demented quotes ("I vividly remember the day daddy took my virginity" or "corpses are the best garden-fertilizer") and uncensored sleaze. It's not entirely without flaws, unfortunately, as I personally anticipated more genuine horror shocks. You have to wait until the film's perplexing climax to witness the first and only bit of unsettling bloodshed and I found this to be a little too long. Also, Nikos Nikolaidis occasionally crosses the line tributing older films, as the music and even some of the dialog are a little TOO reminiscent to Preminger's classic "Laura". Other than that, "Singapore Sling" is an absolute must-see for fanatic cult-pursuers.<br /><br />* Special word of thanks to IMDb'er Dario 2nd!