Homage to film noir is not an uncommon element for modern filmmakers but this is quite an uncommon film. Singapore Sling is a schizophrenic melange of some of the most offbeat characters ever committed to film and some of the most perverted images ever to make the final cut of a "real" film. Mixing in copious amounts of emetophilia and graphic masturbation is just the icing on the cake. I don't think Singapore Sling would be the same without all the shock elements, but the ideas surrounding the images are confronting enough on their own.<br /><br />"Singapore Sling" is a hard-boiled detective on a mission to find a girl who (as we are constantly reminded) is most likely dead, or maybe never existed at all. His search leads him to a villa, bleeding from a gunshot wound on a night where the rain is pouring down hard and two women (supposedly mother and daughter) are burying the gutted remains of their chauffeur in their wispy nightclothes (with no underwear, of course). This place is where "Laura" took a turn for the worse. The ladies of the house certainly know about Laura. They find Singapore Sling in bad shape and take him inside for their unique brand of hospitality--questioning the man and playing mind games with him, and most importantly, subjecting him to torture (sexual and otherwise), humiliation, and domination. In between interrogations, they use him for their own pleasure (as if the naughty girls haven't had enough)--one scene has Singapore Sling raped at Luger-point! There's also a delicious rope bodage menage a trois to boot.<br /><br />As the viewer, you are treated to some tasty sights, namely the nearly constant sexual exploits of the mother and daughter. Perversions are par for the course and explored rather graphically. Mother and daughter have a unique relationship spiked with lesbian sex, eroticized shellfish eating, and a strong dose of emetophilia. All this spectacle is part and parcel to the movie. If this frightens you, do yourself a favor and let your curiosity get the better of you. I don't believe you'll be disappointed. 10/10.