How can a film that contains so much rape and sleaze be so damn boring??? That is the question I asked myself numerous times while watching this mess of an exploit film. I typically love sleazy/trashy films, and budget-constraints don't usually bother me - but WRONG WAY really had about nothing going for it. Nothing new was brought to the table and is nothing that the serious exploit fan hasn't seen before - but WAY better done...<br /><br />The story concerns two girls whose car breaks down in the middle of nowhere. Two scumbags come along playing the "heroes" - but they take the girls back to their camp where they, and two of their other buddies rape the girls for what seems like an hour. They eventually let the girls go, who then stumble upon a group of killer hippies who rape them some more. Then, for some unknown reason - a completely unrelated plot is introduced totally out of left field about two drug-runner/slave-traders on their way to Mexico who stop off in an abandoned shack to bone their newest "acquisition". Eventually the cops catch on and justice is served...<br /><br />Now, from the above description - this probably sounds like an exploit-lover's dream-cum-true, right? WRONG!!!! Almost EVERYTHING about this film is garbage. The rape scenes are protracted and boring, and show more pasty white man-asses and dongs than any female flesh - and this gets old REAL fast. The women in the film are attractive enough - too bad you don't see more of THEM. The production is horrible and reminded me of the 70's XXX-roughie films, minus any of the hard-core content. The only person in the whole film who could act even a shred, is the hippie-cult leader - but he's only in the film for about 5 minutes. Honestly - WRONG WAY is low-budget exploit film-making at it's worst. The only credit I can give it is for it's sleazy and relatively "graphic" exploration of rough subject matter for the timeframe. I guess it would be worth a look to the exploit completist, as it's a pretty rare film to get ahold of - but everyone else, and even semi-serious exploit fans should probably not bother with this one...3/10