This is a very rare film that you're not likely to ever get your hands onto. It was released about 20 years ago on VHS in England. Those were the days before the BBFC so it was not censored in any way.<br /><br />The film is about two girls who are on their way home but after taking a shortcut their car brakes down. They end up asking a bunch of dope-smoking hippies for help but end up getting raped in every sexual position imaginable for nearly 20 minutes of the running time! After the all the hippies have had their way they leave them to themselves. So they decide to wander off and look for help. However they stumble upon a crazy cult of yet more evil people who want to "reduce them to sexual beasts" before killing them. All this time a police investigation is on its way, triggered by the anxious father of one of the girls. And there is even a completely unnecessary and unrelated side-story about two villains who want to smuggle a drugged girl across the Mexican border to sell her to a brothel - but not before raping her themselves ...<br /><br />As you can probably tell from this summary, this is sexploitation at its best (or worst, depending on your point of view). There is no hardcore sex in this film but almost 50 per cent of the running time has various girls getting raped over and over again. I wasn't able to take any of it seriously so I wasn't offended in the least but consider yourself warned. More than once this all but lost film reminded me of Meir Zarchi's I SPIT ON YOUR GRAVE. Only that I SPIT ON YOUR GRAVE had more plot and less sex.<br /><br />With so much nudity on display, maybe I should talk about how the actors look? Well, I thought the girls were all quite beautiful in a very 70ies way, meaning no implants and no plastic surgery. But the men ... Now, I can enjoy a naked guy as much as a naked girl but when they are all about 50 years old, obese, beer-bellied and sporting greasy hair and silly mustaches I get turned off. I guess that was the point as it further accentuates the violation of these girls and I should probably be glad that I wasn't aroused by overlong scenes of rape but sometimes it was just painful.<br /><br />The acting is amateurish and the same goes for the directing and editing. And the music is just weird ... it is mostly made up of dreamy folk-pop songs! It's crazy and often extremely out of place. I'd say it is not such a bad thing that this film has faded into obscurity right after its release. In fact the sole reason that I enjoyed it a little bit was that I had to hunt it down and search for it. I get a kick out of watching films almost nobody else has ever seen. In the end you've to decide for yourself it is worth the effort.