In Madrid of the present days, the waitress Lucia (Paz Vega) leaves her job and goes to her apartment to meet her mate Lorenzo (Tristian Ulloa), who seems to be very depressed. When she arrives, she receives bad news about Lorenzo from the police. She moves alone to an isolated island, where she meets a stranger and lodges in a pension where he is living for the last months. The story shifts to six years ago, when Lorenzo and a woman, without knowing even the name of each other, have a magnificent sexual intercourse. The woman gets pregnant, and her daughter is raised with out a father. Meanwhile, Lorenzo is a writer that lost his creation skills and one night meets Lucia in a restaurant. She confesses to him that she is in love with him and has been stalking him for a long time. They fall in love for each other and Lucia moves to his apartment. Later, Lorenzo is informed by his friend Pepe (Javier Cámara) that he has a daughter, and he meets her in a square, with her baby sitter. From this point on, Lorenzo mixes his reveries with reality.<br /><br />"Lucia y el Sexo" is a weird movie, with a style that resembles David Lynch. I am not sure whether this was the intention of the director Julio Medem, or whether his screenplay is indeed only confused. There are too much gratuitous sex scenes and exposure of genitals, inclusive of penises, and although Paz Vega is a delicious woman, I do not like this type of appellative exaggeration in a film. The story has good points, does not have clichés, and has many metaphoric scenes. I understand that the title of this movie mainly refer to periods of time, "Lucia" in the present days, sharing her life with Lorenzo, and "Sex" the consequences of his intercourse with an unknown woman six years ago. In the end, I found "Lucia y el Sexo" an excessively erotic film, with a confused screenplay, but also very intriguing. I intend to see this movie again in a near future and reevaluate it, trying to see if it becomes clearer after a second time. My vote is seven.<br /><br />Title (Brazil): "Lucia e o Sexo" ("Lucia and the Sex")