I had been curious about "Steel Trap" for a long time. Because with a name like "Steel Trap", you would think it would either be a bad "Saw" knock-off, or a good "Saw" knock-off if that. So when I went to watch it for the first 10 minutes I began to get a little discouraged. Like I don't particularly like it in horror films(with some exceptions) where for the first 10-15 minutes they immediately introduce the main characters and try WAY to hard for them to automatically be likable. In "Steel Trap" for the first few minutes it unfortunately is that way. So I sat there expecting it to be a very slow movie. However as it gets more into the story it becomes more entertaining, or at least enough to keep you watching. When it went off I must say that I was satisfied, and that it over passed my original judgment from the first 15 minutes. However the main problem with "Steel Trap" is it's dullness, and even if you did like it, you have to admit it was a bit dull overall. Like the writing is just a little rushed, and it tries WAY to hard to make it seem original, likable, and good. Unfortunately the pacing, and timing is wrong. Also the story had it's good share of flaws, and it was filled with predictability at times. Plus even if the plot holes were to be fixed, you know they would fix the logical things with cliché'ed stuff. The acting is nothing to brag about either, but it was passable. My last argument is that the writer and/or writers just made almost everyone of the characters faceless, and bipolar. Like the couple for instance one minute they fine, next minute they were boastful, and arrogant, in situations that didn't call for it. However I must admit the resolution to "Steel Trap" while it's very simple, is still very good, and very sinister, and for me pretty much made up almost any problem I had with it, to where it is no big deal. Overall even though I might have expected a little too much from "Steel Trap" it nevertheless is pretty mediocre, so would I truly recommend it? No. Would I say it's worth a shot at watching? Yeah, why not?