With Lucia y el sexo Julio Medem draws on a lot of his familiar themes. Destiny,coincidence and fate alternating courses during people's lives. He also handled love and memories as important drives of people. Children tend to portray people's consciousness, with their fresh and honest innocence. As Luna's fate in this movie both infects and cleanses Salvador, taking him through his past and present.<br /><br />Medem also likes to use nature to symbolize stages and feelings in his character's lives. The moon, soil, water and fish all come back repeatedly, each with a different meaning. This gives the movie a beautiful dreamy atmosphere, strongly backed up by the camera work.<br /><br />Now to the sex in the movie. It's very strong from the beginning, but besides it's explicitness Medem also deals with it very sensitively. The sex is arousing but meaningful too. Anyone who's been in a passionate relationship must be touched by Salvador and Lucia's sex life, leading toward an almost dangerous addiction. I wondered if the rest of their relationship was strong enough to pass the test of time though, sex seemed to be at the core of their love. Some of the sex scenes were very aesthetically directed and filmed. The cunnilingus scene on this symphony-like music was classic! It's definitely the best oral sex scene I've ever seen on film. Arousing with a smile. I was also happy to see that the UK-version of the video was uncut, showing the male organs. Very refreshing that men are also portrayed vulnerably in a movie. The sex is much stronger and important in the first part of the film. That was functionable in the story as the characters saturate themselves in it, leading to problems, but somehow to me it also felt unbalanced.<br /><br />Julio Medem has really made a beautiful film with Lucia y el sexo. I found it profoundly moving and captivating. You have to let yourself be carried away though or you might become saturated yourself, with the abundance of symbolism and sex.