The first time I viewed this version of the Vita Sackville West story I came away moved by the powerful performances, the careful, effective use of language, and the ever present sense of class and propriety that can both stifle a life, and open it to many things. Dame Wendy Hiller lives in her role. Her interactions with Deborah, her only grandchild welcome to visit her, are so genuine as to make the viewer feel as if they have stumbled into a private moment. The grandmotherly understanding Lady Slane shows for Deborah tell us intuitively much about herself. Fine turns by both Maurice Denham as Mr. Bucktrout and David Waller as the bowler covered Mr. Gosheron maintain credibility. Their characters allow Lady Slane the kind of social interaction she has searched for her whole life. Martyn Friend allows the characters to completely dictate the action in this film. Never did I feel the camera was conducting a scene, but quietly recording the event with intimate understanding. Notable performances that enhanced the truthfulness of Peter Buckman's adaption were turned in by Harry Andrews as the irascible, wholly independent Fitzgeorge and John Franklyn-Robbins uncomfortable in his own skin as Kay. Finally, Eileen Way's faithful portrayal of Lady Slane's caring maid/caregiver quite naturally brought the tears to my eyes moments before the end of this three part series. My feelings of empathy for her character, Genoux, in that moment of realization left me without any sense I was viewing a film. The editing is tight. Not a wasted scene, yet, there is no sense any more were needed. I would think that the epitome of what editing should be about. In testimony to this films lasting effect, it has been over 5 years since I last saw this on tape and I remember it this well. In short, All Passion Spent is an clear example of what television can be when those involved care enough to bring all their best, unselfishly, to a project. Dame Wendy Hiller is not prized for this film because she is found selfishly hogging the screen, but because she and her fellow storytellers, bring their whole beings to the roles they present. signed, Spinner