I watched The Trial of the Incredible Hulk on TV a while ago and I actually liked it, I've seen it three times now. The film focuses a little more on Matt Murdock and his alter ego Daredevil then David Banner and the Hulk manly because this film was going to start the Daredevil TV show. The film sees David Banner moving from another place again and heads to New York for a place to stay while trying to find a way to stop the transformations, meanwhile a diamond heist is done and two of the thieves go on a train with Banner on, one of them decides to rape the young women on the train and after attacking Daivd he changes and attacks them both then runs off and changes to Banner but the police find him and arrest him thinking he did it. In prison he meets blind lawyer Matt Murdock who tells him that the women Ellie claimed he tried to rape her, David explains that he wants to stay in prison. Matt then goes to Ellie and talks to her and she lies to him then he leaves. One of nurses working for Wilson Fisk also know as the Kingpin is told to kill her and that night when she goes to Daredevil shows up and stops her.<br /><br />Wilson Fisk then comes up with a plan to kidnap Ellie to lure Daredevil then ambush him and defeat him. He also wants David Banner killed so in prison a sharp object is passed to his cell where the prisoner has to kill him but suddenly he's told that he needs to see someone. David Banner meets the Captain who tells him what's going on then he goes into his cell again. Ellie is soon kidnapped by one of the Kingpin's men, Matt then tells David that he needs to go to trial but after a nightmare of what could happen David changes into the Hulk and escapes. Daredevil then finds David's apartment and asks him to come with him at first he doesn't want to but Daredevil shows him who he really is and they go to his house where he explains to him how he became blind and how he can see sound like a radar. He then asks David to help him find Elley and stop Wilsom Fisk, he's given a possible location by the Captain and goes their where he finds Ellie but also gets ambushed by Kingpin's men and gets beaten up buy suddenly David changes into the Hulk and beats them, then Daredevil sees what happens to David. AFter recovering from his injuries Daredevil and David go to Wilson Fisks tower to rescue Ellie and stop the Kingpin.<br /><br />The Trial of the Incredible Hulk is a pretty good TV movie that fans of the Hulk, Daredevil and the TV show should enjoy. 10/10