I've seen all of the Robin Hood Movies and this one is the best. The most exciting, and great actors. If ever you just watch one movie with Errol Flynn this is it. I give it ten stars. <br /><br />Spoiler: Robin Hood is a knight which becomes a bandit to protect the poor people of England. He is doing this because the real king of England is captured in a distant land during a crusade. Robin tells John (the kings brother which is taking over England) that he will fight him with every means in his power. From that moment forth, he is for ever an out law. He robs the rich to help the poor and saves the money to send to the men holding the king. Robin meets Maid Marian when he and his men ambush a party (prince John tax collectors) with the taxes they have gathered from the people. Robin falls in love with Maid Marian , right then and there. He tells her of why he is an out law, and she understands why he's doing it. Prince John thinks of an Ideal, to capture Robin using Maid Marian as Bate. A prize of a golden arrow. ( for the best archer in all of England). Robin knows it's a trick but he can't resist not to see Marian. He disguises him self, but is still captured. He is going to be hanged. Maid Marian discovers this and helps his men get robin free with a very clever plan. Robin thanks Marian in one of my favorite parts. Where he climbs the tower to speak with her. She admits she loves him. She tells Robin she will stay in the castle to warn him of any other treason which might occur.<br /><br />Next, the king is returning, and the Bishop discovers this and he tells Prince John and they hire a knight to kill the king. Marian over hears this and she tells her maid which tells Robin. John discovers that she was going to tell Robin Hood and will kill her, when he becomes king, in the morning. Her only hope is Robin to find the king and over power Princess John. Will Robin Find the king in time to save Marian and destroy the evil Princes John and his followers? I know I explained what happened in the movie, but you must understand that you will not know how great it is, unless you go see it for your self. My short sum up is nothing compared to the great movie, which is just begging to be seen again. I wish Holly Wood would make more movies like these ones.