When I saw the box I thought I was in for a very big action/fighting movie.Dang was I in for a big surprise.Here is what you are in for if you rent and fall for this very different movie that seemed like a very non-u.s.a. made film with very lazy camera work,stupidish dialog, very weak atmosphere and very little action that seems really poor planning that doesn't work! In the beginning you see these two guys arguing about nothing.The one guy says BS about 10 times. Its like he wanted your attention or that was his favorite thing to say. And then we see Gary Daniels fight this chunky guy.The camera poorly shows them fight like almost the whole time we only saw a part of their body's plus the camera was sideways and nearly upside-down. There is a lot more of this great camera work in other parts of the film. On the box Gary Daniels has a katana sword,I didn't see him use it in the film,where in the heck was it and according to the box his family is in a house and he wanted to get them out because bad guys were going to blow the home up and after all of the fighting you never saw him get them out or at the end or at any time at all. Daniels talks to this guy who in prison on a filthy bench for 15 plus minutes!What a waste of film and time.Is all the guy was talking about was I gotta stop taking drugs and get out of here.If I wanted to a conversation like that I'LL talk to MY next door neighbor. There was so much silly talk,some of the worst camera work and it looks like some one was rubbing the color on the film,oh it was so messed up.It looked like this was a practice feature instead of a movie.I can't even describe how horrible the score and music was. This movie was so dang bad I laughed and laughed and I said I can't believe this,that someone actually made a film like this.What a terrible piece of film,I just can't believe it.Its some of the worst I have seen.Do you believe ME?If not just rent Black Friday and see for yourself.Black Friday is one of best of the worst films ever made! So the bottom line is if you like really bad films this is thing is for you otherwise if want a really big time action flick but I rented Black Friday and gave the film another chance. The results was that it made Me laugh even more! The fight scene between Gary Daniels and co-fight coordinator Tsuyoshi Abe was even funnier in the green lighted car garage. The scene was a slow fight but Daniels delivers with a great kick with a mean look on his face to the sturdom area of Tsuyoshi Abe's character as he hits the wall hard. The conversation on the bench did last almost fifteen minutes! The villain I thought was better than before but he still said BS about six times during the beginning:) The music was very bizarre but yet it grows on you as the films goes on. I am glad I saw Black Friday again. Its an action film that's serious but make you laugh which is fine with Me!