The Adventures Of Robin Hood (1938): Starring Errol Flynn, Claude Rains, Olivia De Havilland, Basil Rathbone, Melville Cooper, Patrick Knowles, Eugene Palette, Alan Hale, Ian Hunter, Una O'Connor, Herbert Mundin, Montagu Love, Robert Noble, Leonard Willey, Kenneth Hunter....Directors Michael Curtiz, William Keighley...Screenplay Norman Reilly Raine, Seton I. Miller.<br /><br />Released in 1938 in the new Technicolor of the time, "The Adventures of Robin Hood" was the one film that not only launched the career of actor Errol Flynn but that of his co-star Olivia De Havilland as well as director Michael Curtiz and even elevated Warner Bros Studios to a new level of greatness, simply because this film boasts a strong cast and oozes with grand old Hollywood spectacle. The popular folk legend of the heroic outlaw Robin Hood is an old one, dating back to the time of the Medieval Crusades and the reign of King Richard the Lion-Hearted. Errol Flynn brought the familiar character to brilliant life in every detail of his performance; from the physicality of his acting (he did all his own stunts!) to the accurate "Robin Hood" mannerisms, language, accent and even laugh. He was exactly what audiences felt Robin Hood should be. It's even likely he inspired the later Disney animated version of Robin Hood in the 60's, in which the characters were animals. The story of Robin Hood has endured over the years because it's at heart a classic tale of heroism. The social outcast Robin Hood and his band of Merry Men,despite lacking the comforts of home and titles, save a then feudal England from the corruption of the Sheriff of Nottingham and the usurper Prince John. While righting wrongs, Robin Hood falls for the noblewoman Maid Marion. Can he defeat the evil Prince John and restore the rightful king Richard to the throne ? A notable cast heads up the film. Rising star Olivia De Havilland is pretty, elegant, charming and yet very resourceful as Maid Marian, and her chemistry with Robin Hood is electrifying. She would later become far more than just Errol Flynn's leading lady and win two Oscars for strong dramatic performances in the 40's for "To Each His Own" and "The Heiress" and her acting career lasted over 30 years. What we see in her as Maid Marian is a young Olivia De Havilland, a new arrival in Hollywood. But the rest of the principals were established stars. Actor Basil Rathbone, who plays Sir Guy of Gisbourne, had been a silent film star of swashbuckling adventure films. Claude Rains (Prince John) was popular at this time and would continue to enthrall audiences with great performances over the years, including his memorable films "The Invisable Man" and the "talkie" "Phantom Of The Opera". Claude Rains as Prince John is a nasty piece of work, blinded by ambition and ruthless in his pursuit of power, hoping to rule England in the absence of King Richard (Ian Hunter) who is portrayed as a lost adventurer himself. Having fought in the Crusades, he comes home to an England he hardly recognizes and one that does not recognize him. Melville Cooper portrays the corrupt Sheriff of Nottingham.<br /><br />The Merry Men of Sherwood Forest, including Patrick Knowles as the dashing Will Scarlett, Alan Hale as the burly Little John and Eugene Palette as the godly Friar Tuck are also what audiences imagined they would be. When the characters are not fighting, plotting or saving the day, there is a considerable amount of humor, especially in such characters as Bess, portrayed by Una O'Connor, who serves as lady-in-waiting to Maid Marion. This film had two directors, Michael Curtiz and William Keighley because during this time in Hollywood, the more ambitious, expensive or difficult-to-produce films normally needed extra direction. But it is Michael Curtiz who garnered fame and he would later direct Errol Flynn in other successful films such as the Elizabethan adventure "The Sea Hawk" and the pre-Civil War epic "Santa Fe Trail" in which Flynn was once again paired with Olivia De Havilland. This film is a winner and a classic slice of old Hollywood.