In 1938 Australian-born motion-picture actor Errol Flynn won the heart of Maid Marian (Olivia de Havilland) and defeated his evil foes as Robin Hood in "The Adventures of Robin Hood", a legendary motion picture about a Saxon knight who steals from the rich and gives to the poor oppressed people of England, based on the well known English medieval legends. Released in 1938, the film won 3 Academy Awards for art direction, film editing, and musical score, and it was nominated for that of Best Picture. It was also Selected for Registry by the National Film Preservation Board (1995). "The Adventures of Robin Hood" is listed among Warner Bros. Studio's classic films and biggest hits and solidified Flynn's image as the dashing young swashbuckler hero who always saves the day. Robin Hood (played by Errol Flynn) fights against the villainous Prince John (Claude Rains), who took control of the kingdom as regent when King Richard (Ian Hunter) was captured in Austria during his return from the Holly Lands after Third Crusade's end . Prince John conspires with Guy of Gisbourne (Basil Rathbone) and certain Norman Knights against his brother Richard the Lionheart so to become a King and oppresses the poor, yet faithful to Richard, Saxons. Robin Hood and his brave men waylay caravans that travel through Sherwood Forest, including one carrying Maid Marian (Olivia de Havilland). Robin Hood woos Maid Marian and helps King Richard regain his throne. Even based on legends, the movie has a quiet accurate historical set and a very interesting depiction of the conflict between Norman conquerors and Saxon vassals, in medieval England. In my opinion this is one of the greatest film ever made in Hollywood. Undoubtebly it's the definitive Robin Hood version, where Errol Flynn surpassed Douglas Fairbanks who had played the same role in 1922. Kevin Costner's remake of this movie and newest version (1991) on the same medieval legend, although is quiet interesting and entertaining, seems to be inferior and mediocre in all comparison to this excellent, and brilliant large-scale epic. Flynn's accent, (which sounded very English to most Americans), and the fact that he brought athletic exuberance, dashing good looks, and a sense of boyish fun, made him a natural choice to star as Sir Robin of Locksley. He plays one of his best roles with bravado and charisma ,appearing his great talent that made him a legend. Olivia de Havilland (who's really of Norman descent!!) gives an other great performance as the definitive Maid Marian, a sweetly beautiful romantic Norman heroine who's loyal to Richard and Robin's love interest. Claude Rains, Basil Rathbone, Melville Cooper (the coward High Sheriff of Nottingham) and Montagu Love (as the Bishob of Black Canons) are simply perfect as villain conspirators and Rathbone displays his great talent in sword fighting in the magnificent final fencing between Gisbourne and Robin Hood which is one of the most famous scenes in cinema's history. Great and brilliant performances too from Alan Hale(Little John),Eugene Palette (astonishing as Friar Tuck), Una O'Connor (Bess), Herbert Mundin(Much the Miller's Son) and Patrick Knowles(Will Scarlett) as Locksley's loyal companions. Curtiz's direction is marvelous and authentic, art direction and costumes are splendid, Korngold's music score is unique and the Cinematography Color is astonishingly beautiful so that deserved to be awarded. The movie is excellent and give it all the stars that I can.