Traditionally the second best, or certainly most popular, pay-per-view in the professional wrestling calendar, the WWE's Royal Rumble is best loved for its 30 man, cross brand (15 wrestlers from each of RAW and Smackdown) main event. In the Royal Rumble, two men start and are then joined at regular intervals by additional wrestlers. The winner is the last man left in the ring but to eliminate opponents, you must send them over the ropes and out of the ring. It's chaos but great fun and the winner has the prize of being in the main event at Wrestlemania, challenging for the world title. In the buildup to this year's Rumble, new WWE World Champion, Kurt Angle, had been feuding with "World's Strongest Man" Mark Henry (a huge bloke who cannot wrestle), Rey Mysterio had been promising to Honor the memory of the late Eddie Guerrero, while John Xena was on the heels of Edge who had cashed in his "money in the bank" at New Year's Revolution to snatch the Heavyweight title from a battered Cena. Chuck in a throw away feud between JBL and The Boogeyman, and you have a slightly patchy card. Royal Rumble match QUalifying matches for the Rumble have been taking place at house shows and on RAW/Smackdown and here we have 30 wrestlers (most of whom you just know haven't got a prayer of winning) slugging it out for a chance to main event Wrestlemania. Randy Orton, Triple H and Rey Mysterio would seem to be among the favorites but the overall match was not the classic Rumble that we always hope for, mainly because there are usually a few side stories that play out, some setting up future feuds. The Boogeyman vs JBL The Boogeyman is a bizarre gimmick character who seems to like eating worms. He's been portrayed as being unstoppable in the ring yet is clearly of limited wrestling ability. Here he tries to slough through the self-proclaimed wrestling god, JBL. Pure filler and instantly forgettable. World Heavyweight Championship: Kurt Angle vs Mark Henry. Henry has been annoying people since he returned to WWE last autumn, inflicting a genuine injury on then champion Batista (which led him to relinquishing his belt). Henry is seriously limited as a wrestler but there is no questioning his strength or size. Champ Kurt Angle is a wrestling machine and really over with the fans. Can he carry the limited Henry to a half-decent match? Don't hold your breath. It ranks as one of the worst championship matches in recent times. WWE Championship: Edge vs John Cena Edge won his money in the bank (a free title shot whenever he wants, valid for 12 months) at Wrestlemania 21. Immediately after a grueling Elimination Chamber match at New Years Revolution that left champ Cena victorious but bloodied and bruised, Edge seized his chance and swiftly beat an already half-dead Cena within a minute. It is his first world title and high TV show ratings show how popular his reign is. At the Royal Rumble, Cena tries to regain his belt. Edge is main event caliber now and is great in his heel role, while Cena is not the best wrestler and has received increased animosity from the older male audience, tired of his hip hop white boy image. The resulting match is OK, not great, just OK. Overall, this is a disappointing PPV. Even the normally exciting Royal Rumble match was a bit of a letdown. As the start of the road to Wrestlemania, this was certainly a stall for the WWE.