A DVD made up entirely of trailers at first seemed like a waste to me, but over 2 hours of splendiferous crap has changed my mind. From all around the world, Synapse has dredged up some primo material for the geek with no attention span and slapped the title 42nd Street Forever on it to stir up some nostalgia for the good ole days. There's some really cheap and cheesy stuff on here, peppered with gratuitous-but-too-quick-to-jack-off-to nudity, goofy gore, and groan-inducing jokes and one-liners. Plenty of obscurities and classics are on display for your amusement.<br /><br />There are way too many highlights on here but I'll try to hit 'em all. You've got all your bases covered from cult low-budget and no-budget campy horror, sci-fi and exploitation flicks like The Undertaker and His Pals, Teenage Mother, Matango, The Green Slime (or as the voice-over guy says, "The Greeeeeeeeeen Slime!"), the Fred WIlliamson blaxploitation/western crap-fest Boss N!gger (dig that funky theme--"He's real bad, They call him Boss, they call him Boss, Boss N!gger!"), and the hilariously offensive and amazing to behold The Crippled Master to real gems like Walerian Borowczyk's art-house erotica L'Interieur d'un Couvent, The Centerfold Girls, engaging Euro-trash Devil's Nightmare with the divine Erika Blanc, David Hess/Franco Nero gritty shock feature Hitch Hike, the salaciously satisfying mondo doc Shocking Asia, and B-grade goodness Attack of the Deadly Spawn. Those who would suck a fart out of Christina Lindbergh's leather Cheerio will undoubtedly get a rod for the trailer of The Depraved, which is nice and sleazy and looks like it could be quite good despite itself...and the trailer, of course, features Lindbergh doing full-frontal.<br /><br />Historically interesting was the inclusion of trailers for 3-D porn movies. I really want to see The 3 Dimensions of Greta ("IN THREE DIMENSIONS"!). Also included in this sub-genre were a couple of vintage ads for Johnny Wadd films ("IN 3-D!!!")...."Eye-popping! His cock will knock your eye out of the socket!" My favorite trailers were the trashiest. The interview style ad for the double feature Blood Spattered Bride/I Dismember Mama. This one not only had its fair share of tits and silly splatter, it also has some retardedly funny "man on the street" comments from moviegoers. Some of the other trashy treasures included are spots for the gay biker comedy The Pink Angels, harmless and corny sexploitation spy flick Ginger The Very Private Eye, Sergio Martino-helmed sex comedy Creampuffs, gory Gallic sword & sandal epic Ironmaster: La Guerre du Fer, the inexplicably mindless sci-fi smegma The Raiders of Atlantis (which I must see!), biker horror flick Werewolves on Wheels, Conrad Rooks' detox doc Chappaqua, Luigi Cozzi's grandiose sci-fi schlock Caroline Munro-vehicle StarCrash (which features Christopher Plummer, Joe Spinnell, and David Hasselhoff), and tons more! <br /><br />These trailers over-hype the sh!tty films they are pushing in a variety of ludicrous ways. Some of them just plain lie. Many of these films look awful, but at three minutes apiece it doesn't really matter because you can get to the money stuff and not have to suffer as much through the bad acting and awful production values that sitting through these films in their entirety would entail. There's about twenty of them I have to buy now. Many boobs were seen by me as well as some bush and transsexual junk and pygmies and animal violence, not to mention the horror of Necrophagus! I need a cigarette now--9/10.