Diane and I watched this engrossing film last night after she had purchased it because of her recent trip to Buenos Aries and both of us loved what we saw. I guess, because of my general drift towards evaluating films visually, I was taken by Felix Monti's cinematography which was deep and almost malevolent in its intensity--a perfect match to the unfolding drama. The movie remains open ended at its conclusion with a number of parts at the end that, as usually happens, does not leave absolutes for viewer. This ambiguity must be a factor of my lame mind but it is an obvious tool used by the Duvall to leave threads of thought left untied.<br /><br />As opposed to many that post their reviews of movies on this site, I use IMDb as a diary of personal impressions about films I have just seen: not necessarily thoughts about the script of a movie' just my immediate ideas that flow into my thoughts after a movie's conclusion. Hence I take movies at face value; I do not even evaluate movies that I do not like. This movie has been criticized for Duvall's appearance as an aged man; the movie's bad dancing; Dufall's arrogance in making a movie that is "his baby" alone and other attacks too numerous to mention. I cannot agree however; the movie was slow moving and as such it painted for me a delicious pastische of the life of a complicated man doing a surreal job under surreal circumstances. Of course there may be holes in the plot and holes in the execution of that plot but to my mind, a movie, as a whole, must take on a dynamic of its own and this movie certainly did for this viewer.<br /><br />Diane said that the shots of the cafe's and the Tango clubs and the music and the dancing are what she saw in BA when she visited last year. Duvall's direction was excellent in that all the actors delivered their lines in documentary style with no sound stage or theater theatrics. I had the feeling that I wasn't looking at a movie, except for the subject matter, just a look into the life of a guy in a foreign city doing a job. The substance of that job comes as a shock when reality kicks in towards the end but in the totality of the movie it plays such a small part.<br /><br />We both loved the film, no doubt for different reasons but the satisfaction was the same. Definitely check it out after reading other comments if only to see what you think.