Ashley and Mary-Kate Olsen play Jane and Roxy Ryan, twin sisters who couldn't be anything more unlike each other. Jane is a studious over-achiever while Roxy is a wild trouble making rocker. Despite their differences, the two of them spend a wacky day in New York City being chased by a truant officer {Eugene Levy}, a Chinese bootlegging ring, and a couple of cute guys.<br /><br />I honestly don't understand why the Olsen twins decided to work on this film for their first big screen picture in nearly ten years. The film is very cheesy and very stupid just like their straight to video stuff. It's pretty much a thin story tied together with a bunch of scenes of the Olsen twins running around. Unfortunately, the Olsen twins are really not that interesting or talented. So watching them run around for 90 minutes is not a good thing. They're not funny and all their jokes fall flat. Their jokes don't work because the set up lines are very clunky and the jokes are just so awkward and lame. You would think that after 18 years of acting they would be able to handle it but I guess not.<br /><br />The supporting cast aren't much better themselves. Eugene Levy was not funny and it was kind of sad watching him in this movie since you know he is way above this material. Andy Richter gives an embarrassing performance as Bennie. His character is such a stereotype and kind of offensive as well. The rest of the cast don't add anything as well and they just look embarrass to be there. Director Dennie Gordon is no stranger to success. She has some nice hits under her belt but this is one project she shouldn't have made. Her direction is kind of lazy and unfocused. She doesn't really tell a story and just moves the film along kind of messily. I actually used to like the Olsen twins when I was younger and I have just outgrown them. I can understand her fans liking this film but everyone else not familiar with their work should skip New York Minute. In the end, New York Minute is a waste of time and it's a film only the kids will like. Rating 2/10