When I first saw "Tale of a Dog" back in the 70's on television, I had no idea this was the very last "Our Gang" comedy made until I read about it in Leonard Maltin and Richard Bann's "Little Rascals" book when it was first published in 1977. There was a possible reference to this fact when, in the opening scene, Big Shot tells Smallpox while sniveling, "There comes a time when even the best of friends must part." <br /><br />As for the short itself, it was rather funny, especially the scenes where the other kids run from Buckwheat and Big Shot while a radio announcer's voice warns listeners of the "epidemic," and when the kids hog the phone booth in a drug store while other people wanting to use the phone line up behind them (they hang up a sign that says "Line is bizzy").<br /><br />Even funnier were the scenes in which Dr. Parkson (Emmett Vogan) advises Buckwheat's mother (Willa Pearl Curtis) to isolate Buckwheat from everybody. When Dr. Parkson returns later to check up on Buckwheat, he finds Buckwheat in bed, covered in ice, shivering. "Jumping catfish!," exclaims Parkson, "What's all the ice for?" To which Buckwheat's mother replies, "Why, doctor! You told me to isolate him!"<br /><br />While "Tale of a Dog" was the last short produced, "Dancing Romeo," the film made before this one, was the last "Our Gang" comedy to be released (apparently the MGM brass wanted everyone to believe Froggy and Marilyn lived happily ever after). "Tale of a Dog," according to Maltin and Bann's revised 1992 "Little Rascals" book, came out on Saturday, April 15 (Tax Day), 1944, while "Dancing Romeo" was released exactly two weeks later, Saturday, April 29, 1944 (April 29, 1962 was my birthday!).<br /><br />Also according to Maltin and Bann's book, MGM was planning another "Our Gang" short to have been called "Homefront Commandos," but decided to cancel production midway through filming (most likely after discovering how much money "Dancing Romeo" lost). I can only imagine how funny that might have been, considering the title, the fact that World War II was still going on, and that since there were 221 total films made in the entire "Our Gang" series what the film to make it an even 222 would have been like had it been completed. It also seems tantalizing to imagine if MGM decided to stick out "Our Gang" for one more year, until after World War II ended, I'll bet there would have been a patriotic-themed musical episode, like "Calling All Kids!" Don't you think so?