Breaking and Entering is The Academy Award winning director of "The English Patient," Anthony Minghella's latest film. This is not an epic war romance, the film is set in modern London. If the movie was half as long, Mr. Minghella would be picking out a new tux for the Oscars. But, the two hour long film is too confused and overstuffed with ideas and character development to be bearable. See if the following synopsis gives you a headache: Will, (Jude Law) is an architect who has just opened up a slick new office that looks like an Apple store. Unfortunately, it is in a "developing" part of London famous for its hookers. His office gets robbed a few times and he decides to find the culprit himself by staking out his own office with a techno loving prostitute, (Vera Farmiga). The "free-running" thief turns out to be a fifteen year old boy, Miro (Rafi Gavron) who works for a gang of Serbian thugs related to his late father. Will tracks down Miro but ends up falling in love with Miro's mother, Amira (Juliette Binoche) a soundless-piano playing seamstress.<br /><br />Need some Excedrin? That's only about half of the movie and I haven't even mentioned Will's depressed light-box loving, long time girlfriend Liv (Robin Wright Penn) and her gymnastics obsessed behaviorally challenged daughter.<br /><br />I was lucky enough to attend a screening with a Q&A with Minghella after the film. He's obviously enjoying the clout of having an Oscar. It gave him the opportunity to write and direct this film inspired by some of his own experiences. The director even answered some questions from the audience. One of the best was, "how much did you get from Apple?" The film has a lot of Macs in it and Macs kept getting stolen from the office. At one point a character actually says, "these Macs are great aren't they?" It seemed like a clear case of product placement. Minghella said Apple gave him no money. He explained that it was an inside joke. He's Apple obsessed and his office in London kept getting its Macs stolen.<br /><br />If you can sit through it, the acting is good. Law's performance is subtle and interesting. He has real chemistry with Both Binoche and Wright Penn. Unfortunately the characters are so developed they do not leave much room for the plot.