Hellbent Regency 2004 Color 85 minutes Gay-Horror Dylan Fergus, Bryan Kirkwood, Hank Harris, Andrew Levitas, Matt Phillips and John P. Petrelli star. Written and Directed by Paul Etheridge-Ouzts Rated R for graphic violence, gore, nudity, language and drug use Finally homo-horror rears it's cute little head from behind the genre divide. I was lucky enough to attend this film courtesy of tickets from Camp Blood. Upon entering the fully packed theater as loads of people couldn't get in that were eagerly awaiting the screening outside. It hit me, this is it and I'm so excited. Being that I am a huge horror fan and a gay man I have been eagerly awaiting this film for quite some time. A film that combines my lifestyle with the thrills I've become so accustomed to cherishing over the years. So as I sat down the films promotion manager came up and introduced the film. He said I'm so happy all of you could be here to see the movie, I hope all of you like it and if you do tell your friends. And if you don't just say it was challenging. The audience giggled along with me and my friends and the lights dimmed. We were first shown a trailer of another homo horror film hitting theaters soon Dante's Cove witch looked more like a skin flick to be honest. not that I'm complaining but it got me worrying a little I was hoping Hellbent would be something more than just pretty flesh on view. I can happily say that it was. After a silly beginning featuring two hot guys getting it on and getting murdered. It was off to meet our main characters. First up gorgeous pretty boy Eddie played by the Passions Dylan Fergus. He's the Jamie Lee Curtis of the film, the somewhat virginal victim. Throwing off sex and drugs in search of a bad boy hunk he saw at the local tattoo parlor. That bad boy hunk is Jake played by sexy as hell Bryan Kirkwood of The Forskaen a scruffy, tattooed, tough boy protecting a wounded heart. Than there are his friends Joey played by adorable Hank Harris of Pumpkin the naive twinkie cutie of the group swooning over a crush on a deliciously hot jock boy. Bisexual Chazz played by yummy poster boy Andrew Levitas of Psycho beach Party (Provolonie) your basic friendly but whorishly natured player. And finally last but not least there's the model Tobey whose dressed up as a drag queen for Halloween hoping someone will notice something about him besides his looks played by heartthrob Matt Phillips. But wait there's the villain shirtless, mostly in the dark with ripped six pack abs, a devils mask and love for decapitations and eye gouging played by the brutally handsome John P. Petrelli. Along they go on their escapade to the Halloween carnivale in West Hollywood. Hoping for fun and hot guys they end up being stalked and systematically slaughtered one by one by a pointless but amusing killer. And this film is just entertainment, it's fun. there's lots of eye candy, creatively brutal and gory death sequences and manages to generate a good amount of old fashioned suspense and laughs. It plays a lot like a Friday the 13th sequel with an all male cast. And all though this is a film about gay men it's not a gay film. This is a horror film cut and dry and any real horror fan won't have a problem admitting to it. It's obvious that it was done on a low budget, but despite the poor film quality the film is smart and energetic fully delivering on it's promises as a brutal horror film that features gay characters. Hopefully the film will make some sort of impact, from the audience reaction I think it has quite a future to look forward to. A definite big time cult movie. It has hot boys, gruseome deaths and jolts galore. Let in the fun and go find Hellbent. A traditional tthrowback to the heart of the genre a film that generates goose bumps, laughs, sex appeal and good old fashioned slasher/horror! ****(out five) Richard Cavellero Metuchen,NJ