Sci-Fi channel movies are notorious for their constant cheeziness. This one should be perched at the very top of the heap. Since I loved the original, LAKE PLACID, I thought this might be at least an interesting experience. From the first scene to the last, this garbage proved that there are still Neanderthals out there in the movie making business. In the first shot, we see two men in a boat. One of them is quickly gobbled up by a giant croc. His companion merely stares at the water, blinks his eyes and says "Oh, my God!" in the next scene, he is in the sheriff's office and has told his story to the deputies. Their reactions? They all sit around whooping and giggling and nudging each other as if they've heard the funniest joke of the year. And then the sheriff drops in and asks this survivor what his problem is and the survivor merely shrugs and says "there's a problem" out there on the lake. Even after the sheriff is nearly swallowed alive by the creature, he's joking and laughing just seconds later. In fact, no one in the miserable cast ever act as if they're in any danger at all. After every death, they're all joking and laughing and skipping along as if nothing has happened. We're treated--if that's the word--to several scenes of the girls stripping off their bras. I guess we're supposed to be panting with passion at this. One of the craziest scenes is when the hot-headed jerk is mouthing off to his two companions how he would never ever believe there's a monster croc. One slips up right behind him, less than two feet away. His two companions merely stare and say, "Eh, you'd better come along." They act as if there's a squirrel or a possum just a few feet away from them. Of course, the hot-headed jerk is swallowed alive and his companions skip away. And then one of them says, "I can't believe I saw that." The special effects are the type you'd find in an elementary school room. this would be a perfect laugh-out-loud movie to watch along with that other much-praised masterpiece of lousiness: HANDS OF MANOS.