I never saw the original, but I watched about an hour's worth of Lake Placid 2 and I have to say, it SUCKED! The story is basically the same as every other giant water monster movie: numerous deaths that happen around the lake, town panics, the sheriff goes in with a bunch of guys to take out whatever is causing them. Let's not forgot the 5 idiotic teenagers that have a run-in with the movie's giant crocodile.<br /><br />Let me get this off my back. Sci Fi Original movies are known for their suckiness, but in this case, it's more painful to hear the script, then was in "Minotaur". The sheriff is a complete idiot who is supposed to be the protagonist who seems to be so stupid that he acts casual even when he sees a giant crocodile eat a live man. The acting is so horrible and the script is just barely at the level of "Uwe Boll" quality. After the first death, you are introduced to a team of hunters who are hoping to get a little moolah for the creature that killed some fat guy in the beginning of the movie. The leader of this team has the WORST Scotish accent I have ever heard and hearing him and the Sheriff chat about guns and whether or not the lead female, Emma, likes him the most is so painful to hear that you just scream "SHUT UP!!!" at your TV. It is just surprising for me to see how unaffected a bunch of morons are when facing a giant reptile and how casual they act even when someone was just eaten.<br /><br />Then, there are the most annoying actors and actresses in the whole movie, even worse than the sheriff's acting. The sheriff's son who is there to visit his dad and is pretty bummed out of the fact that there isn't any cable, high-speed Internet, or cell phone reception located in the middle of hick country. Then, somehow, he gets involved with some girl, who he fancies, a guy in a tight white t-shirt who, I guess, is her boyfriend or something, a Paris-Hilton copy, and the drooling slob who wants to get in the Paris-Hilton copy's pants.<br /><br />These teenagers are not only bad acting, but they are DEAF! There are two examples of this: One is when Paris Hilton dies. While Slob, or Larry, is swimming around in the lake, somehow, a 20-foot-long croc is able to sneak past him and up to Paris' feet and she says "Larry, you pervert, get away from my feet." And gets eaten and you are happy that she is dead because that means that 10% of the bad script has been cut off from your ears (if they aren't bleeding already). The second example is when the sheriff's son, the girl he likes, and the girl's 'boyfriend' find a crocodile's nest and (of course) the retarded boyfriend starts crushing eggs, making a bad joke like "I know what kind of egg this is. Scrambled." Then, the mom croc comes back and gives that "Oh no you didn't" impression and comes up behind the boyfriend, snarling and breathing loudly and even when the girl says "There's a giant crocodile behind you!", he thinks it's a joke and still doesn't appear to hear the croc that is about 3 feet from him! He dies, thank God, and then, (even though when she said "There's a giant crocodile behind you!", the girl runs into the forest with the son and asks him "What was that thing?" and the son replies "I don't know, but I bet it is what laid those eggs!" That's when I turned off my TV and got onto my computer to warn you all about this horrible movie.<br /><br />I am usually VERY generous toward so-good-they're-bad movies, but in this case, if someone who has seen "House of the Dead" and "Bloodrayne" from start-to-finish actually turns off the TV after watching an hour of "Lake Placid 2", you know you have a problem. Though it is clear that very few people will buy this movie, I don't recommend renting it and if you see it re-running on Sci Fi, turn the channel QUICKLY! Unlike "House of the Dead", it isn't a bad movie that is funny to watch because of how much effort was put into it, it's just an all-out bad movie that Sci Fi can add to their quite long "Flops" list.