In this great mafia movie, i was really impressed with the realism of the scenes, is well shown in the movie all the previous research about the lives, behaviors and methods of some gangs in the U.S.; while i was watching the film i felt like watching real crime scenes in New York! that was great!. Gary Oldman is definitely a great actor for this type of characters; he was the one i liked most; good friend, good and risky mafia boy and good brother, and with some alcohol problems, he performed this character with perfect domination of the role. Sean Penn was great and he feels totally as one of the people of the real Irish mafia!; dark scenes, a great casting and realism is what this good movie have to offer. I didn't like of the film, that sometimes it cuts from scene to scene quickly showing different parts of the whole story that for a good part of the film you can't understand, this spaces are somewhat long and i got bored like at the middle of the film. But fortunately the movie restore it's pace and conclude in a excellent and thrilling way.<br /><br />ABOUT THE FILM: Sean Penn is Terry Noonan a guy involved with some obscure business and people who after an incident with drugs, returns to New York where he join his old gang of Irish in New York after ten years, he met with his old great friend Jackie Flannery (Gary Oldman) and his ex girlfriend Kathleen Flannery (Robin Wright), the Flannery brothers are a Irish family that dominate the mafia business in the area and are leaded by Frankie Flannery (Ed Harris). When Terry join the group, he meet some other old friends like Stevie McGuire (John C. Reilly), and other important bosses of the mafia and extortion like Borelli (Joe Viterelli), dark interest start to rise in the gangs, where Terry plays an important role, Terry's interest start to be uncovered trough the film showing incredible events that make the film a great one. John Turturro as Nick plays also a great role.<br /><br />7/10! for this good movie directed by Phil Joanou.