Alonzo, the "Armless"(the master of expressionistic cinema, Lon Chaney)is in love with assistant Nanon(the alluring Joan Crawford). Nanon grows tired to the brink of psychological woe because of men's desires to grope her with their hands. Malabar, the Mighty(Norman Kerry), a Strongman who works for Antonio Zanzi's circus wishes to forge a relationship with Nanon, but when he attempts to embrace her, the phobia she has pushes her away from him. Zanzi is Nanon's father and his disgust towards Alonzo heightens when the Armless one attempts to woo her. Trying to bludgeon Alonzo, Zanzi is pried away by Malabar. Alonzo vows to his ally, Cojo(John George), that no one will have Nanon but him.<br /><br />We soon find out that Alonzo actually has a harness underneath his clothes which hide his arms from others and that he is secretly homicidal with one of his hands having two thumbs! This two-thumbed hand leaves quite an indelible mark on others, especially when Alonzo murders Zanzi. Feeling he's closing in on Nanon's love, Alonzo will make the ultimate sacrifice by having a delicate operation which proves how far his obsession has taken him. But, what he doesn't know is Nanon has relinquished her phobia and has accepted Malabar's plea of love for marriage. The scene where Alonzo discovers from them their plans for marriage, his face twists in a state of madness, anguish, and horror(Chaney's expressive facial emotion is powerful). The morbid attempt at retribution from Alonzo towards Malabar(who is planning a certain stunt regarding horses pulling his arms on treadmills)will ultimately spell his doom.<br /><br />This silent film is breathtaking mostly because of Chaney's commanding performance. His abilities to use his feet(throwing knives, wiping the sweat from his brow, and especially LIGHTING CIGARETTES)just makes his performance even more amazing. The film's bizarre nature only brings this film a much deserved notoriety. An astonishing, unforgettable work from Tod Browning.