This was a great film. So many gay films today focus on teenage youth coming out, or 20 something pretty boys and their gorgeous boy friends, or, much too common, have an AIDS theme or sub theme. Even then most films of the last 15 years, the period of time I call the age of "Gay Cinema", focus on REALLY YOUNG GUYS. Don't get me wrong. Beautiful men with pecs and six- packs are lovely eye candy. What I like about this film is it dares to look at men who are past 30! As a man looking back at 6 decades of life, with about 5 decades ofpersonal gay identity behind me, this film speaks to my own personal experiences. Yes, it's hard to date when you reach 39, or 45, or 60. Damn hard. Yet my life did not hits it's prime until I turned 40! That said, it's nice to see on film a portrayal of what all the twinks, muscle queens, and in the case of this film, all the "Every Man" types will have to go through as they pass the big three 0.<br /><br />SPOILERS AHEAD<br /><br />Josh, a 30 something year old caterer living in West Hollywood, catches his long time partner of 10 years in a flagrant act with a 19 year old twink. He throws a fit (who wouldn't), stomps his feet, cries a little and goes to a bar where his friend Chris, an aspiring MBA graduate, proposes that he, Chris, set up Josh with 10 guys in 10 dates to find "Mr Right". Now Josh is the every man of the gay world. He is an average guy. Not pretty. Not a muscle boy. A nice looking man, but he would stand out as "over the hill" in many circles of gay society today. Josh reluctantly goes along with the silly plan but insists that if no perfect love shows up that he, Josh, will go back to Cleveland where he grew up and start his life over. OK...... what ensues is a very funny set of scenes with 10 guys from HELL who either are "gay for pay", hustlers, stoned out losers, are hiding lovers on the side, have anger management issues, are bi-sexual and have a girlfriend on the side or just plain loony tune! What makes this film so real and really very romantic and sweet is that Josh is really an old fashioned guy. Or as Josh puts it to one of the 10 dates, "I'm just a regular gay guy". He says this to a cute 20 something year old guy who has a girlfriend, but explains "though not gay myself, my girlfriend want to watch me get it on with another guy"! Josh responds with the line "that's just not gonna happen". Josh wants a commitment. He wants a guy who loves him, who has a job and a car and even someone who will tear open "three equals" for their ice tea or coffee That's the sugar substitute. This seemingly meaningless line plays an enormous part in the last scene of the film. Now this film was made with very little money and sometimes that is really noticeable. Lots of hand held cameras and naturally lit bar and restaurant scenes. Sometimes the sound is not too clear. What is clear to me is that unlike many recent popular gay films like "Latter Days" or "Edens Curve" the men in this film are really gay. Probably not all of them, but certainly the leads and many characters.This gave the film a reality that is unmistakable. When your going for an attempt to show how hard it is for a gay guy of a certain age to find a certain someone that will share your life and love, it great to have real GAY men providing the acting. The acting is what makes this film. I have known all these people at some time or another in my own life. They are real and the pain, happiness, confusion and redemption they express in their search for love is real. Now I know what some will say.....The cast are playing characters that are all stereotypes! Sometimes, sometimes. Josh, however is absolutely "DEAD-ON". I have been Josh. My friends have been Josh. All the pretty boys in this film will reach a time when they are all becoming Josh. Is that a stereotype? Maybe, but its also real life. Finally, anyone reviewing this film must speak to the great Judy Tunuta. <br /><br />She is just perfect as the goofy psychologist overseeing the group therapy sessions that Chris attends. Judy is always so funny. You just can't take your eyes off her. It's also so funny that her name is Glenda in this film. The therapy group calls her the "good witch of the west". <br /><br />Oh, remember those packets of sweetener? The 3 Equal packets? They provide the unspoken, yet brilliantly encapsulated little "cheat" which brings a happy ending to this film. The look in Josh's eyes when he watches the guy in front of him tear open those 3 packets for his coffee in the train station restaurant is so romantic. It brought goosepimples up on my arms to understand what Josh was thinking and feeling. Who was this guy? That is for you to find out when you see the film. This is a wonderful, funny, compassionate movie with a real heart. Its a keeper.