Dev is no doubt one of the class of titans of Hindi cinema. basically story of two people with belief in their respective different ideologies. I love this movies for various reasons. The 1st because it shows the fact and is realistic cinema. It shows the real picture of our society and it really is thought provoking. What happens if dirty politics is played and politicians uses their power for their selfish reason and exploits masses. Govind Nihalani no doubt beautifully portrays these all. Massmerizing Performances are another part which compliments this movie so wonderfully. Be Kareena Kapoor, Rati Agnihotri or Fardeen Khan everyone portrays there part so well in fact they were 1st time so close to their respective profession of acting. What to say about brilliant performances given by Mr. Bacchan & Om Puri. About Mr. Bacchan I must say this is his best performance till date along with Black. Hats off Mr. Nihlani & Bacchan. Even great actor like Puri seems he was learning the A,B,C of acting from Bacchan. Oh god! what a terrific actor Mr. Bacchan is along with Tom Hanks, Jim Carry, James Stewert, De Nero and Pacino. Plot is very simple, Amitabh is a cop who believes in the constitution of India even though his son Armaan was killed by terrorist. Rati Agnihotri played his spouse and Om Puri played his senior officer cum best Free. Om Puri and Mr. Bacchan both wants perfect situation of law and order in the country but their ideologies are different. Om Puri wants it happen by the means of power but Bacchan wants it to happen accordingly by constitution. Bacchan hates crime and Puri hates criminal. Fardeen Khan played a Muslim youth who believes his father was killed because of Dev Pratap Singh. Kareena played his love interest. We can see further in the movie crime and violence at its extreme. It further remind us what happened in Gujarat a years back. But thankfully there we can see in the movie life has some good aspects too and also some nice people like Dev Pratap Singh who help people like Farhaan, Fardeen in the movie get back into the right track. The climax is shocking, Amitabh became the victim of dirty politics and gun down by them. Finally Rati ask a question to Mr. Puri who is responsible for the murder of Mr. Bacchan. Atlast Om Puri gun down himself in front of Fardeen as he said Amitabh was his father and Puri killed him for his ego. I recommend 9 out of 10 for this movie, really this movie is must see one.