Le Boucher is a lesson in suspense from French director Claude Chabrol. There is very little in the way of action in this film; but it doesn't matter, because the director knows how to handle suspense, and so despite the fact that there isn't much going on; the film is always interesting. In fact, many modern directors could benefit from watching this film. Through a detached atmosphere and an isolated French setting, Chabrol has created a movie seething with tension, and in a way that always allows the audience to fully take it in. The fact that the movie is beautifully photographed helps the film tremendously, as even if even less happened in the film - the visuals alone would elevate it above the norm. The plot follows the friendship between a local butcher and the school's headmistress, Helene. The pair grow to like each other in the midst of a local maniac mutilating girls in their village. As a birthday present, Helene presents her friend with a lighter; but things turn awry when the teacher discovers the latest victim...with the lighter she bought her friend at the scene of the crime.<br /><br />Le Boucher stars Stéphane Audran in the lead role. This beautiful actress is superb at providing the lead, and also fits into the film brilliantly as she bodes well with the exquisite cinematography. The film is obviously a product of the time in which it was made, as the visuals are similar to a lot of other mystery films being released around the same time. The plot takes obvious influence from the Clouzot French classic 'Les Diaboliques', but this is not merely a rip-off - Le Boucher has a style all of it's own. Jean Yanne stars opposite Audran as the title character, and he too is excellent in his role. He creates just the right ambiguous atmosphere around his character, which ensures that the tension is instilled as it should be and the climax is believable. Le Boucher will no doubt annoy many due to the fact that not a lot happens, but unlike other films where nothing happens, such as The Blair Witch Project, there is always enough suspense here to ensure that the film doesn't become boring. On the whole, this is a great little thriller and comes with high recommendations.