Betrayal is a B movie all right, but it has a plot with interesting angles and delivers good entertainment, some suspense and many hilarious moments. The main character is a teenager with a low IQ but a high sense of responsibility – in short an Anti James Dean. His mother, a single mom, is totally broke and he wants to help them get out of their misery. So he takes on a job: delivering bags he does not know what's in them. Even the first delivery goes wrong because the boy wants to help a guy who is writhing and retching on the ground. It's a trap and the boy sees the bag snatched away from him because he showed empathy.<br /><br />He goes back to mom, after a while the gangsters shoot into the house and the boy tells his mom everything and says that he is sorry. Mom says it's bad, but that she is even MORE sorry than he (this exchange seems to be inspired by Dr. Strangelove and is repeated several times throughout the movie). They decide to flee to granny who is living far away, but have not the money to buy a train ticket. Luck strikes as in the queue in front of the railroad ticket office they meet a sexy young lady who says she had her driver's license removed, wants to travel to the same destination and offers them to finance a rental car )which is terribly unreliable, as it will turn out). Big, big coincidences, but not entirely impossible or unbelievable.<br /><br />The sexy lady is, of course, a contract killer who carries millions in cash in her aluminum suitcase and is pursued by the police and the mob she stole the money from. Mom and son are used as a shield, and the son gets some sexual education on the way. That this weird triangle works so well can be credited to the involved actors who do a good job. Especially Jeremy Lelliott is very convincing, he is quite likable and displays the necessary goofiness for the part.<br /><br />A lot more happens in this movie, coincidences abound and the good people win in the end. My favorite scene is the son's coming home to the deserted house he and his mom supposedly have left for an undetermined but certainly pretty long time. He carries the aluminum suitcase with its precious content and is pursued by the mob, the corrupt police, the honest police and the sexy lady who is a killer. But he quietly goes to the fridge, takes out a ready to eat dinner and switches the TV on, where just that moment, just on that channel there is some news about the mob, the sexy lady killer, his mom and their exchange. Speak of an ideal situation. Life really should be that way, sometimes.<br /><br />You single moms out there, take an example from this movie, do hide a revolver in the exhaust hood of your kitchen too – just in case. It might come in handy, as Betrayal amply proves. And the gun will remain well greased over any length of time.