This is great B movie fun, that deserved a run in theaters in my opinion, with wonderful fight scenes and fun performances!. All the characters are really cool, and the story is a lot of fun as well, plus Mark Dacascos and Kadeem Hardison are simply amazing in this!. It's also a great "Buddy" "Buddy" flick as well, and it's very well made and written as well, plus I was lucky my friend recommended this to me, otherwise I would have gone thinking it was just another straight to video Action film!. A lot of it works dude to the wonderful chemistry between Dacascos and Hardison, and the fight choreography was also fantastic, plus the guy in the white coat at the end looked awesome and was very cool. Brittany Murphy does great in another kooky role, and I thought the ending was great, plus it has some very sly humor as well. The opening gets you into the film immediately with a fantastic opening fight sequence, and Dacascos is a really gifted martial artist! plus this is one of the best straight to video films I have seen!. This is great B movie fun, that deserved a run in theaters in my opinion, with wonderful fight scenes, and fun performances, I highly recommend this one!. The Direction is great!. Steve Wang does a great! job here with very good camera work, excellent angles and keeping the film at a very fast pace. The Acting is a lot of fun!. Mark Dacascos is amazing here, he is full of charm, is extremely likable, kicked that ass, had wonderful chemistry with Hardison,looked really cool, had a great sense of humor, and blew me away with his singing at the end, I loved his performance! (Mark Rules!!!!). Kadeem Hardison is also amazing here, he was very funny, and worked so well with Dacascos, what a great unknown find here, I really hope him and Mark make a sequel together!. John Pyper-Ferguson is quite menacing as the villain I dug him. Brittany Murphy is very cute, and does awesome in another one of her kooky roles she had lots of spunk!. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall I highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 (almost a ****).