"Vet hard" or "Volle gas" as it is called in the Dutch speaking part of Belgium (don't ask me why they changed the title, we speak exactly the same language as in Holland, so why shouldn't we understand it?) is certainly not the most original movie, but it is great fun for a night out with some friends. If you are a fan of the French movies Taxi, Taxi 2 and Taxi 3, than this is definitely another movie that you should see.<br /><br />In this movie we follow Bennie, a fat, women hating snack bar owner who has been in jail for a failed robbery on a jeweler's shop. When he gets out of jail he finds out that his foster father Mast is dying and that there are only two options to save him. One is the liver of a person with the same blood type or even better a relative, the other option is an operation in Bolivia, but that will cost an enormous amount of money.<br /><br />Mast tells Bennie that he has a son of his own called Koen, who has to spend his time in a Belgian jail. It is his last wish to see him once again before dying. This gives Bennie an idea. He'll get his half brother out of jail, kill him and bring his liver to the hospital so his foster dad can be helped with it. But when the time has come to kill Koen, Bennie can't do it anymore, because he started to like Koen too much. So now they have only one option: commit some crimes to raise money and save for the trip to South America.<br /><br />The acting is OK. The Belgian as well as the Dutch actors all did a very good job, even though I never expected to see some of them in this kind of movie (for instance Kurt Rogiers an Peter Van den Begin). The story is nice, although it sometimes fails a bit when it wants to offer "too much story". This kind of movies doesn't need as much story as it needs action and jokes and that's where it sometimes went a bit wrong. And you better don't expect to see the most original movie either, because than this will be one big disappointment. This movie has been made with only one intention and that is to make as much fun as possible and to keep the audience laughing at regular times. And that's exactly where this movie has succeeded. It does make you laugh, especially during the car chase (In my opinion that's one of the most hilarious scenes in the movie). I really liked what I saw and I give it a 7.5/10.