After seeing this version of Get Carter and the original, I think they are both good in their own way. I don't think you can hate the new version and like the old version. They are both so similar that you can't hate the new one. You can prefer the old to the new though. Personally I like the new Get Carter more. I thought the original was good though. Michael Caine was good in his way. Sly Stallone was good in his own way.<br /><br />The Stallone remake of Get Carter could've been a lot better. It is really the director's fault if it was weak. You can blame the writer too. Some lines were pretty lousy. I think it is safe to say that the directing and writing wasn't very good. You can blame them, but you can not blame Stallone. He did the best he could with what he got. I think he was perfect for this kind of Jack Carter. Not a dark one, but a good one. Stallone's Carter is one that is trying to do something right for once in his life. All his life he was a bad guy on the wrong side of the tracks, but now he's going home and he's trying to make things right. Like Caine's Carter, he's not leaving until he finds out who killed his brother. No matter what, he's going to make sure they pay.<br /><br />Then when he finds out what happened to his niece that really sets him off and drives him even further. Everyone responsible for the murder of Richie and rape of Doreen is going to pay. I found that scene on the rooftop with Jack and his niece to be very touching. He was telling her how it wasn't her fault and Rachel Leigh Cook really did come off as a girl that was raped.<br /><br />People have a problem with Jack living in the end of this one. But what they don't realize is, Get Carter is like a western. The stranger rides in to town, makes the bad guys pay and then rides off into the sunset when his work is done. It makes you feel a lot better knowing that Jack made all of the bad guys pay and finally found redemption in the end. I hated the ending to the original because of how it just came out of nowhere. It made no sense. It was almost like they put that in there because they were forced into it. Michael Caine's Jack Carter did wrong and he still had to pay for it. Michael Caine did show in one scene that his Jack did have a heart. When he sees Doreen being raped in that porn film, you can see him shedding tears. Stallone did not shed tears in the new version, but at that point he was angry and out for blood. He did get a little emotional on the rooftop with Doreen though. In the Caine version he never does see Doreen again. There was more of a relationship between Jack and Doreen and I liked that. In the new version you also got to see where Richie's wife and daughter were coming from when Jack shows up after years. I never did get that feeling in the original. I liked this movie and I think if people give it a chance they will like it too. The director and writer did almost ruin it. If not for the whole foundation of the story and for Sylvester Stallone, the movie wouldn't be good. Personally I like Sylvester Stallone. When you see his wonderful Rocky movies you can tell the guy's got some heart. I never will forget him for making those Rocky movies that I grew up watching and loving. Some day I would like to meet Sylvester Stallone. <br /><br />By no means is this movie as good as Stallone's classics. But it is almost as good as his decent action movies that came out in the 90's. This movie isn't up there with Rambo IV. But if Sylvester Stallone had directed this movie and wrote it, it could've been a hell of a lot better. Stallone has been approached to star in and direct a Death Wish remake. You have no reason to worry if it happens. Stallone will be in the director's chair this time. Not Stephen Kay.