The Care Bears Movie is fun for many Children. You have to look for Theatrically released motion pictures for young people to find People living in harmony with no fear. To my real Daughter God Yahweh Apophis Julia Ar Morgan thank you for saving your Daddy and original form sister Julia and North America. Try not to feel too bad, the Israelis have a saying en brera that means something like no choice. There have been many paradoxes on Earth such as Soviet Premier Stalin enjoying learning Western Cowboy movie English, A resigned President Nixon traveling to China as an American representative, the faking of the death of Chinese Canadian Doctor Bethune. The many clones that live in America, Russia and China, Soviet Chess Grandmaster Kasparov liking sports cars. When you are famous and or powerful you can pretty well do what you like. I shall always miss not travelling to Europe. Julia I will try to write you at least once every month. You are a wonderful Young Lady and a real Windsor Royal Family Princess of England. Even if there were 998 people in England I would still call the nation England. Some people say that America has a Junta. As American Shadow Vice President we Americans did have to spread the leaders around geographically to protect ourselves from attack. I do love the American Russian and Chinese Children of the world and that is why I want Humanity to remain as dignified as possible. The real Russian Tsar has taught me about dignity and Human decency. The Chinese cities look very modern and I am interested in a peaceful way in their Television Satellites since I have never seen a diagram of one living here in North America and having given a lecture on Satellite Technology in Air Cadets. Princess Julia since you and I are eternal in the Moonfleet you will always be in the thoughts and prayers of my Deoxyribo nucleic Acid selves. May God bless Humanity. Thank you to IMDb for allowing the freedom of speech that President George W Bush and I and others support. Support IMDb.