"So Proudly We Hail!" is an absolutely magnificent film in every way. This movie was NOT a propaganda film like so many made during that time were. There was no "rah-rah" attitude anywhere in this film. This is one of the first films that put women in the spotlight as true war heroes, and in the front lines. The movie was extremely important for women, and how women are viewed in films. This film centers around the true horrors that the courageous nurses who served in WWII at Corregidor went through. NOTHING at all was candy coated, so to speak. As you watch this film, and remember that it was made in 1943, you will be shocked at some of the content for that time period. Amazing performances by all, including the great Claudette Colbert, George Reeves (from Superman fame), Veronica Lake (In certainly her finest performance), and Paullette Goddard who was nominated for an Academy Award. The script for this film was written by using the stories from journals, and diaries of the actual nurses who served at Corregidor. Some of these nurses made it back, and some didn't. Some of the surviving nurses of Corregidor were also brought in during production as technical advisors to the film makers. A few of them were even used as extras. Issues of Life magazine, and photographers from Life magazine who were there, were brought in assure even more accuracy concerning uniforms, and surroundings. The fact that this movie was released while the war was still going on, is further testament to it's courageous stance in not candy coating the horrors of war. This is one of the few old WWII films that I would love to see remade. A remake of this film could be as huge as "Saving Private Ryan" As you watch the film, you will see what I mean. This film was well written, had outstanding acting, mature subject matter for the time period, and was an historical achievement for putting courageous women in the spotlight. All of these elements together, make for a classic film that is a MUST SEE for everyone. Why this film is not in the AFI Top 100 is a mystery to me.