I caught this movie on cable TV a year ago, slightly edited, and was hooked from the opening bar scene. The characters felt so real to me, it seemed like I was sitting at the bar, watching the various interactions of the people there. I kept waiting to see if Rick would turn out to be a total jerk, but it became clear that he was just a rather shallow, unemotional type guy ,who clearly was not interested in relationships and commitment. He never once said anything to lead poor, hapless Debbie on, with the possible exception of his vague, noncommittal response to her dinner invitation. Even at the end, when she was literally clinging to him in the bar, he didn't say anything mean or abusive, but told her, in a low key, not uncompassionate way, that she needed to go home and sober up. It wasn't what she wanted to hear, but it actually was the kindest thing he could have said to her, under the circumstances.<br /><br />Gena Rowlands' performance as Debbie's mother was heartbreaking in its perfect blend of strength and fragility. Her reaction to Nicky's death, and her meeting with his son at the funeral were incredibly moving. Again, I felt the reality of the characters and their lives in a way one doesn't encounter often in movies.<br /><br />Uma Thurman's performance was so dead on, that I actually felt embarrassed for her in her desperate, drunken scene in the bar. Debbie would be a pain to put up with, in real life, but her frequently obnoxious mannerisms and attitudes never outweighed the pity I felt for her, as someone who had been badly wounded at a young age, and had real issues as the result. It's a daring performance, in which she doesn't hold back on honestly depicting the painful vulnerability of her character. I found myself wishing at the end that she would find a nice guy who would really appreciate her, and that all three women would have happier lives in the future. There's something about this movie that gets hold of you and doesn't let go; maybe because a lot of us have felt like Debbie at one point or another in our lives.