Recently , we had a number of comedies based on the passion to possess lots of money ,and the subsequent pursuit of the lofty goal, the mad runners coming from the lower middle class , or even rural community. Apna Sapna Money Money , Malamal Weekly etc. Dhamaal also revolves around not less than 10 crores , lustily eyed by a group of assorted people , and a smart inspector , even the Commissioner ! The casting of the movie is good , with Arshad Warsi , Javed Jafferey , and old -time veterans like Asrani in cameo roles to support. The plot has been thoughtfully written , to create farcical situations , some of the innovative being the idea of Adi to sell paintings to the sons of the deceased . Ritesh Deshmukh has given a very natural performance , and his scene with the monkey in the jungle , or faking a gun made from the soap , to scare the dacoits , are hilarious . Sanjay Dutt is surprisingly at ease , and looks fresher than he otherwise looks . A considerable amount of effort has obviously gone into the stunts , and they help to add to an otherwise predictable plot , and reduce the monotony of the string of events , by pumping excitement into the situations . Their ride through the mountains is also pleasing to the eyes . i remembered a scene from Mr. Bean's Holiday , when he gets locked up in a roadside loo , and also gets entangled with a young boy , who is left behind on the platform. The twist to the situation , when they have to part with their prized booty , after going through so much of agony and calamities , is a real feather in the cap of the script writer . i found it very appropriate , that especially the jobless and the mediocre youth willingly give up the money. Normally , the money either goes down the drain , or flies in the air , or the characters are after each other with fatal gun shots . This is how we could discreetly influence our young ones ,that values are more important than the pieces of paper , that is cash . However , the movie needed a little touch of editing , especially for the constant slapping of Asrani , and their flight in the plane , going on and on ! Vinay Apte's south Indian , repeating his never ending name , and Arshad going crazy over it , are quite original. The heroine in this movie was the money , and the hot pursuit proved to be more exciting , by Men Only this time for a change ! Musical score and the dance numbers , are suitable to the plot line , and performed in style , included moderately , to protect the tempo of the string of events . one would certainly look forward to watch such comedies , which are not failed attempts to create humor , but well-thought out , pure entertainment . Keep it up !