I was introduced to the "X-Men" as a kid in the 1990s when I started seeing episodes of the cartoon show. Later, I started playing an X-Men video game, and during my comic book phase, I do recall reading some X-Men ones. Since then, the comic book series has been one of several to get the live action movie treatment at some point within the past ten years or so. I didn't see too many films on the big screen back in 2000, so I didn't see this this first "X-Men" movie adaptation. I finally watched this about a year and a half after going to see its sequel, "X2", but I have now seen it more than once, and it is good.<br /><br />In the near future, many mutated humans exist. They are born with a special X-Factor gene, which gives each of them a certain superpower. Unfortunately, these mutants are generally feared by the rest of humanity, even though many of them mean no harm. In the X-Mansion, where many good mutants live, Professor Charles Xavier runs a school for students with the special X-Factor gene, where they learn how to use their gifts wisely. Xavier dreams of a society where mutants can live with the rest of humanity in peace. However, another mutant named Eric Lensherr (a.k.a. Magneto), who was once Xavier's friend, has different plans. He has a machine that can convert non-mutated humans, and he plans to speed up the process of human evolution with it! For some reason, one unbeknownst to anyone in the X-Mansion, Magneto and his evil mutants are after either Logan or Rogue, two recent arrivals at the mansion! <br /><br />Comic book movies from recent years are generally not known to be flawless, so it's no surprise that "X-Men" has some fairly weak moments. After the first scene, which is set in 1944, and the story skips to the near future, where the rest of the movie takes place, the film gets pretty shaky, starting with Rogue in her room with her boyfriend, just before she discovers her powers. I would say the story really gets good around the part when Logan (a.k.a. Wolverine) first finds himself in the X-Mansion. After that, it doesn't stay completely steady for the rest of the film, but usually is pretty entertaining, with a decent amount of action and suspense, as well as good special effects, some intriguing futuristic sets, and occasional humour. I can't say TOO many of the cast performances here really stand out, but those of Patrick Stewart (as Xavier), Ian McKellen (as Magneto), and Hugh Jackman (as Wolverine) do. The script isn't perfect, but for the most part, it's better than the "Hulk" and "Catwoman" scripts (two very disappointing comic book movies), that's for sure. Here, there's a mixture of strong and weak dialogue and acting.<br /><br />So, overall, this first "X-Men" movie does have its cheesy moments, but that certainly doesn't mean it has no entertainment value. Now, some people strongly dislike these recent comic book movie blockbusters in general, and if you're one of them, I'm sure saying that this one has its cheesy moments is a gross understatement to you, if you've seen it. However, if you don't like this kind of movie, it's simple, don't watch it. For those whose interest is often captured by comic book movies like this, there may be some films of this kind which are best to avoid, most notably the more poorly received ones, but "X-Men" certainly isn't one of those, even if it's not the best adaptation of a comic book series ever made.