I loved Terminator one and two, I was disappointed in three but it still did not ruin the series. Now we are on the fourth movie Terminator Salvation, I've been hearing a lot of bad on this movie but being a terminator fan, I was going to go anyway. It begins and we see Marcus in the present and that begins his story. Then we move ahead a few years and we see John Conner, he's in a battle and it's loud and a lot of explosions. We get to see a hint at the old model and it reveals that John is not the leader in fact he is not even aloud to know what is fully going on. After that Marcus appears and finds the city in ruins, he is confused and by this we get to hear the characters talk about what happened.<br /><br />From here we get to see the T-600 and Kyle Reese, Marcus is rather cold towards him at first but he is pretty confused about what is going on. The T-600 being a terminator it can't fail to empress. They are a lot like the T-800 but ratty and big. Eventually John gets to talk to the commanders and the plot gets set up from here. It follows the pattern of the Terminator movies, a big battle or fight then to some peace and then a big fight and then another peace. All leading to the big fight and some surprise that are shocking, Christian Bale does well as a colder John Conner than I would like but Sam Worthington steals the show with Marcus. We get to see some of the old terminators from the first movie and all kinds of new non-humanoid Terminators but sometimes I feel that the T-600, the new endo-skeleton deserved a bit more of action than motorcycle terminators.<br /><br />I hear there is too many explosions and not enough plot but for a war based movie it works, like the old terminators a plot point, a battle a plot point a battle. I think John and his wife Kate should have spoken more and you have to look close to notice she's pregnant. The new ending since they changed it works well with what they set up and it flows well. I wish it had ended otherwise but that's just me. It's true these movies could have been more plot and less explosions but it has as much plot as the first. This is a good movie maybe one of my favorites but to even say it's close or not as good as three is a lie. This is a good movie and while I'd more skeletons matching at the humans gunning each other down and then a bit more plot on Conner but what this movie does right is Marcus, not to say Bale did a bad job but Marcus is the show. 4/5