There was a screening of Shoot 'Em Up during the San Diego ComicCom 07 at the GasLamp Theater. My cousins and I almost didn't get to see it because the nim-witted box office staff decided ticket stubs would be needed to get into the theater even though we had Shoot 'Em Up passes directly from New Line Cinema reps. Because ticket stub holder got in first, we ended up sitting in the top seats of the theater, which turned out to be a blessing. Clive Owen actually attending the screening and sat right behind my cousin. Hehe!! As for the movie, it's one of the best action flicks of the summer. The director wanted to make a John Woo style film and he succeeded with this goal. The gun battles are terrific. Clive Owen plays Mr. Smith. A man in the right place at the wrong time. In the opening scene he watches as a killer chases a pregnant woman into an alley with a gun. Not one to stand and let a woman get killed, he takes action to protect the woman and her baby. What follows is a series of misfortunes and narrow escapes as pieces of the plot are put together. Why was this man trying to kill this woman? What does the baby have to do with this crazed hit-man (play by Paul Giamatti) who's after him? Will Mr. Smith's call girl squeeze DQ (played by Monica Bellucci) help him? All these questions are answered in the movie. Just when you're about to take a breather from the action, it revs up again and takes off. Even though the plot is a little thin, it's unique as well. I'm not going to give any of it away either. The only real downside is the action isn't realistic in some of the scenes. Things happen to perfectly for our hero, whereas in real life he most likely wouldn't have made it to the end of the movie. You know what I'm talking about? The movie is still very fun to view and weighing in at only 90mins, it won't take up your whole afternoon. This is a must see for fans of John Woo and action films. I'm going to see it again with the wife when it gets released in Sept. I rate it 8/10.