Plots like this have been done before; and done better in some films, but that doesn't stop Burt Kennedy's little known thriller 'Wolf Lake' from being a very well done and constantly intriguing little thriller. The film is not perfect; there are pacing problems and a series of annoying/confusing flashbacks that break up the narrative; but it also features some strong characters and an interesting plot line with some ideas that actually do hold some weight. The film takes in themes of patriotism, vigilantism and vengeance, and fuses it with a thriller narrative. The base of the plot is very simple and centres on a wood cabin by the side of a lake known as 'Wolf Lake'. A group of war veterans turn up for a week of shooting, drinking etc, but find the cabin being looked after by a young man named David and his girlfriend. One of the group discovers that David is a war deserter and warns him that all hell will break loose if the leader of the group were to find out about it. He then goes and tells the leader (?), and all hell breaks loose.<br /><br />The film stars Rod Steiger and the actor gives a real powerhouse performance and is definitely the best thing about the film. His character is the most complex in the film; and even though his actions are extreme, they are justified and Steiger manages to make the role believable; which is testament to his acting talent. The film is rather slow to start although this time is used well in building up the plot line and characters. We get a good impression of the central players early on and this makes the film more involving by the time we get to the inevitable conclusion. The location used is excellent in that it creates a real feeling of loneliness for the central characters; they really are out in the middle of nowhere with no chance of help coming for them. The central plot and the problem between the two main characters are open for debate, and also give the audience plenty to think about. Overall, while this film does have some flaws; it's still an excellent thriller and it's very unfair that this is so little known! See it if you get the chance.