Television,during the late 1950's and early 1960's,for those who may not remember it,was in shades of gray with the majority of the weekly variety-musical show,and the situation family comedies that come to mind. Along during that decade of early television,the usual mystery-detective/crime drama series was all over the place,but the one thing that dominated television---the TV western,with "Gunsmoke" and "Wagon Train" ruling the ratings charts. During the year of 1959,most of the television shows that were on the airwaves at that time were westerns,with the usual drama or family situation comedy or children's show that was the order of the day.<br /><br />In 1959,two astounding anthology series premiered that would change the face of television. One was "The Twilight Zone",which was hosted and narrated by Rod Serling whom also was responsible for writing some of the episodes. "The Twilight Zone" premiered in September of 1959 on CBS-TV. The other anthology series was the underrated and in its own right successful "One Step Beyond",which came in as a mid-season replacement,premiered on January 20,1959 on ABC-TV. Produced at the same time as "The Twilight Zone"(which was well-known and became very popular),the series "One Step Beyond" was a anthology series that fed the nation's growing interest in paranormal suspense in a different way. Hosted by John Newland,he had a much more stronger screen persona. Since the stories Newland introduced were supposedly true,his understated,scholarly approach was more appropriate,and there was no need for cleverly written lines and sardonic wit. The show really introduced audiences to the supernatural and unexplained phenomenon which was really unheard of for late-1950's TV.<br /><br />The production values on "One Step Beyond" were certainly on par with the average half-hour show of that time,since some of the stories kept the audiences' attention on sheer focus and a superior track record of consistent quality. And since they're were no spaceships,prehistoric monsters,or aliens no lame effects were used here. Created by Merwin Gerard and Produced by Collier Young(whom would later on become one of the producers of "Ironside"),and John Newland,the series ran for three seasons on ABC-TV from January 20,1959 until July 4, 1961 and ran for a half-hour producing 96 episodes,all in classic black and white. Not only did John Newland introduced us to the episode that followed not to mention being a congenial host,the series also employed the talents of performers who invested their material with conviction and authenticity to spare,from long-established character actors to at the time rising stars who were making their mark on their careers,such as: Christopher Lee,George Grizzard,Torin Thatcher,William Shatner, Alfred Ryder,Suzanne Pleshette, Pernell Roberts, Ross Martin, Patrick O'Neal, Elizabeth Montgomery,Edward Binns,Charles Bronson, Robert Vaughn,Donald Pleasence,Paul Richards,Dick York,Jack Lord,Louise Fletcher, Barbara Bain,Barbara Eden,Robert Loggia,Claude Akins,and even Warren Beatty. Even Cloris Leachman and Mike Connors and also Peter Graves were guest stars in this series. Writers like Don M. Mankiewicz,along with Charles Beaumont,Larry Marcus and Collier Young.<br /><br />As for "based on actual events" aspect of the series,"based on actual claims" this was a series(one in these days is rarely seen) were based on something that actually or supposedly took place. Whether you believe these actually occurred or were the product of the supernatural or a more reasonable explanation,is beside the point. Best to judge for yourself. That they could happened,or that someone claimed as much,gives the series an extra shudder or chill factor that "Zone" can't duplicate. And just by watching these episodes were always recounted in intriguing and compelling manner. The was a grand series that nevertheless carved out its own niche as the best of the genre from the golden age of late 50's TV. It was a grand series that lasted for more than three seasons,ending on Independence Day of 1961 after more than 96 episodes.