Along four days in London, the dramatic life of the three sisters, their absent brother, parents, lovers and friends is disclosed in `Wonderland'. Debbie (Shirley Henderson), Nadia (Gina McKee) and Molly (the lovely Molly Parker) are sisters of a low middle class family in London. The hairdresser Debbie is the mother of an young boy. Nadia is a lonely woman, who works in a cafeteria, and is trying to find a love through the Lonely Hearts agency, specialized in blind dates. Molly is a pregnant teacher, who is close to the delivery. Nadia misses her brother Darren (Enzo Cilenti), who left London due to some problem with his bitter mother Eileen (Kika Markham), a very frustrated woman. Aileen and her husband Bill (Jack Shepard) are disillusioned with their lives. Bill is so bored with his life that he seems to be astonished, in the expectation of a call from his son Darren, like a salvation board for the situation of his common life with Eileen. Nadia has a blind date with Tim (Stuart Townsend) and feels a kind of non-corresponded love for him. Debbie has a promiscuous and well-resolved sexual life. Molly's mate is Eddie (John Simm), a man frustrated with his work and profession, and without enough courage to confess to Molly that he lost his job. The story is unfolded in a fragmented way, and in the ends, all the pieces are joined together, with characters and situations very well defined. Michael Winterbottom is a fantastic director. I have seen `Jude', `Welcome to Sarajevo', `I Want You' and now `Wonderland' and they are great films. `Butterfly Kiss' is the weakest I have watched. Unfortunately I have not seen the other movies of his filmography yet and I am not sure whether they are available in Brazil. Molly Parker is an amazing actress: in one movie, she is a pregnant woman feeling the pain of the birth, in `The Center of the World' she is very sexy, showing a great versatility in acting. The natural performance of the cast is also outstanding, making the story very real and credible. The `Minnie' hair of Nadia is the only negative point of this wonderful movie. My vote is eight.<br /><br />Title (Brazil): `Encontros e Desencontros' (`Meetings and Failure to Meet')