Yesterday, I just said I'm sick of stylish lonely film, but Wonderland forced me to reject my words. I love Wonderland in the same way with Lost in Translation. They may not a good film but their artistic styles touched my visibility and sensibility (accurately, I should write my SENSITIVITY). The cinematographic approaches (such as hi-speed, slow-motion and hand-held) were similar to Wong Kar-Wai's works. Many scenes in Wonderland can created a beautiful sight of London as well as an exotic look of Hong Kong in Wong's. (And also Tokyo's mysterious look in Stratosphere Girl.) The most fascinated element in this movie was its score composed by Michael Nyman. (He also wrote music for The Piano.) Every single piece of them can take my heart away. I like Nyman's bright idea to give each song as a theme song of one character. (Therefore, all track lists are character's names such as Debbie, Molly, etc.) Compare to Philip Glass (Who composed score in The Hours); I think both of them have something in common. They are clearly a minimalist musician, using few notes and play them in a loop. But their music are so powerful, I can listen to them repeatedly for a hundred times. Anyway, I have to give a big thank to my lovely sister, Vespertine, who introduced me to Wonderland's score.<br /><br />My favorite scenes in Wonderland <br /><br />1. Eddie (John Simm) stood on the bridge; he spoke the words he wanted to tell his wife to the air. It's like a rehearsal of tragedy stage play. He mentioned all horrible circumstances which may happen to his marriage life in the future. He will be a drunken, a jobless person. And he will imprison his wife and kids in the house, shoot them with a gun, and finally kill himself. (A story like this just happens to my high school friend, she is the only survivor.) It's unbearable if you know the bad things will explode, you want to cease them, but you can't. The only thing waiting for you is an irreversible disaster. (Anyway, I may too pessimistic for this scene because in the end Eddie and Molly can get along well.) <br /><br />2. The scene Nadia (Gina McKee) went back home after she had sex with Tim (Stuart Townsend). She was on the bus, leaned on the windows, made a face that I can't describe, and then her tears poured from those sad eyes. I like Gina Mckee's face in this movie very much. It's like she always smiles but there's an obscure sadness on her face in the same time.<br /><br />3. Jack (the boy) watched the firework alone and I think the music played in this scene was a climax for me.