Sociopolitical context: This movie is perfect if you want to understand why the PCC (Primeiro Commando da Capital) was founded after the Carandiru Massacre of '92. The PCC is a state recognized terrorist group which coordinates massive and simultaneous prison riots throughout the state of Sao Paulo. About 2-3 years ago, it staged a major riot that took to the streets of Sao Paulo and couldn't be quelled for days.<br /><br />Moreover, many people have considered this movie to be biased. In a sense, that is very true because it is told by the doctor who treated the inmates and thus forged friendships with the criminals. Moreover, the military police officers who raided the prison have never come forward to give their accounts of the events.<br /><br />This movie is set in the late 80s, at the outbreak of the AIDS pandemic and culminates with the infamous massacre. The movie surveys the lives of several inmates, in the style of "mockumentary." This is used primarily to humanize the criminals and to give them a voice, as well as a sense of humanity. Regardless of what society thinks of criminals (or "marginais"), this film made sure that every inmate had a name, a story and a sense of honor. (However warped we think they may be.) Many will call this part slow because it is: it's not designed to progress the plot, it's merely there to make you feel the humanity of these prisoners. In my opinion, although slow, it was still fun to watch. Classic moment: showdown of Majestade's "honeys." <br /><br />The effect of the "slow" hours of the movie finally deliver a very traumatic and powerful result: when the military police stormed the prison towards the end, it is trying not to feel genuine shock and horror. I was seriously disturbed; although quelled, the MP invaded the prison anyway and opened fire at inmates that had massively surrendered their weapons. The blood pool and collection of holed-up corpses along the corridors sent shivers up my spine. 111 inmates murdered by the MP without weapons. Based on Dr. Drauzio Varella's accounts, there was no legally justifiable or excusable reason for opening fire upon 111 inmates. The humiliation that followed was likewise painful to watch.<br /><br />I enjoyed this movie because it poised many questions: which punishment should fit which crime? Is humiliation and slaughter appropriate only when you wear a badge? Who is the bigger criminal? Brazil - for all its faults - is still my home and I love my country. I was taught to believe that crime is commonplace and part of living in such a beautiful and warm land. However, as a law-abiding citizen, how much brutality do I tolerate in my name? And on a side note, a mundane curiosity overcame me: how come they get to walk around freely around the prison? How is it that Lady Di has a very cute and well-decorated room? How and why do they get hot plates, TVs & radio? If this is true, it really does crack me up and stirs a myriad of emotions in me towards the Brazilian justice system!<br /><br />Lastly, if you're not about any of the political stuff, at least watch it for Rodrigo Santoro's performance. He is AWESOME in drag!