2 days in Paris (2007) was produced/written/directed/edited/scored/starred by Julie Delpi who also recruited her real parents to play the parents of Marion, her alter ago.<br /><br />Julie Delpy who was absolutely charming as Celene, the heroine of two Richard Linklater's movies (Before the Sunrise and Before Sunset), tried to make the similar film or rather follow-up about the couple that have been together for few years, experience some problem in their relationship, and try to work them out. Judging by the fact that Delpy has thrown so much of herself in all aspects of creating the film, she deserves my deepest respect. The problem is, as much as her movie walks the same territory as Before the Sunrise and Before Sunset (it takes place in Paris as the title suggests), it is not as good as they were. The chemistry between two main characters, the French Marion (Delpy) and New Yorker, Jack (Adam Goldberg) is completely non-existent, the plot is very thin but it is not even the biggest problem. The film has no subtlety, elegance, wit, or charm, and if it does, they are very well hidden. Yes, few times Woody Allen's name came to my mind because Adam Goldberg seemed doing homage to Woody Allen's character, neurotic, unsecured, and whining - and not particularly good one. He was mean, often without the reason. The scene in the beginning of the movie when Jack gives the group of the Americans tourists the apparently wrong directions to Louver just because he is sure that they are conservative Bush supporters does not make him a white knight, and it is just not funny. I also did not find charming Marion sending to her family via e-mail the picture of naked Jack with the colorful balloons. I have nothing against pictures a la nude, and from what I was able to notice, Jack had nothing to be ashamed of but how about privacy and trust in the relationship? Whatever happens between two people in their intimacy should stay between them because it belongs to them only. How about simply asking a boyfriend if he would not mind his funny picture be sent to his girlfriend's family? Does sensitive, intelligent, feisty Marion ever think of it? I was so much in love and could not get enough of one afternoon in Paris few years back with Celene and Jesse. 77 minutes long Before Sunrise was so clever, so romantic, and so moving that it made me want to see another movie with French girl and her American love, to find out what could've happened to them. Well, little did I know that it would be "2 Days in Paris". It is sad for me to admit, but Delpy's follow up to two of the most romantic modern screen observations of the relationships was a disappointment. I should mention that Delpy's movie has some positive sides to it. I liked how she showed HER Paris, very real, tough, and not sentimental. I liked for the most parts her parents Albert Delpy and Marie Pillet in their roles. There is one scene that I enjoyed and every time I think of it, it makes me smile. On their way to visit Jim Morrison's grave at Per Lashes, Marion asks Jake, Why do you want to see Jim Morrison's grave? You don't even like The Doors. And he answers, "It is a famous grave...I am a huge fan of Val Kilmer". Sadly, all the bright points were not enough to save the movie - I never thought that two days in one of my favorite places in the world may be so unbearably long and disappointing.