A hauntingly beautiful film, 'Mysterious Skin' is a moving film that endures through tragedy and heartbreak. Not always an easy film to sit through and watch, but one that delivers a profound emotional experience. Rising star Joseph Gordon-Levitt gives a dedicated performance in a difficult role, making Gregg Araki's film a memorable and powerful picture.<br /><br />As an eight-year-old, Neil McCormick is sexually abused by his baseball coach. It follows Neil through the rest of his life, and as a teenager begins to sell his body for sex. Brian Lackey is a boy who, also at the age of eight, experiences a traumatic event after blacking out for several hours and waking up to a bloody nose. Believing he was abducted by aliens, Brian sets out to investigate and uncover the mystery. He'll discover more than he bargained for when he realizes a deep connection with Neil, who he played baseball with nearly ten years ago. To finally unlock the key to his past, Brian desperately searches for Neil, who he hopes will ultimately help him learn to cope with his troubled past.<br /><br />The art behind 'Mysterious Skin' is how painfully realistic it is. Similar films can often get carried away by sensationalizing events or leaving you with an artificial ending, which is completely opposite from the way 'Skin' works. For that, it may appear underwhelming or dull, but the effect couldn't be more different. It relies on script and characters to tell the story, and they all achieve greatly. The subjects of sexual abuse and prostitution are approached quite frankly, making 'Skin' that much more disturbingly real. It's not a happy movie, it won't lift your spirits. It's a very sobering experience that will leave you quietly while speaking profound words.<br /><br />Joseph Gordon-Levitt is the star feature here with 'Mysterious Skin'. His performance is steeped with tragedy, as his character desperately tries to attach meaning to an act that has become empty and emotionless to him. His performance deserved more attention than it was given, but Gordon-Levitt is clearly on the verge of breaking out after roles in the outstanding 'Brick' and this year's 'The Lookout'. Brady Corbet and Michelle Trachtenberg both deliver admirable and mature performances. A fantastic young cast who truly help lift this film to great heights.<br /><br />'Mysterious Skin' takes its viewer on a unique coming-of-age journey that's about discovering one's self, and being comfortable in your own skin. A painfully honest look into the world of abuse, 'Skin' is an abnormally tender and genuinely heartfelt story. Gordon-Levitt will wow you in a fantastic performance, as the film itself is a remarkable and note-worthy achievement. This film will challenge you, but I highly recommend this bold picture to all of you.