I'll admit that Girlfriends didn't look so bad for the first 5 episodes. Im not sure why I watched this junk for at least 3 seasons but I guess I was just being optimistic that this show might have gotten better as it progressed but it didn't. There are times when this show blatantly rips off elements of Sex and The City. In this review I'll state everything that made me despise this show. The characters are pretty obnoxious and as the show progresses its hard to like them because they do some pretty stupid things to jeopardize their lives. Joan Clayton(Tracee Ellis Ross) cant keep a steady relationship with a man to save her life. Maya Wilkes(Golden Brooks) doesn't know if she wants to be with Darnell or not and she drives him as well as the viewers of this show nuts with her high strung antics. Lynn Seacy(Persia White) is the most likable character in this show but she is not without her flaws. She does not know if she wants to be with men or women(and she drives them both insane), She is very scatterbrained and when people depend on her she is likely to fail them. Plus I found that very typical that the most likable character of all of them is the one of mixed heritage. Toni Childs(Jill Marie Jones) is the most reprehensible of all characters. As a matter of fact she is probably the most insufferable character in sitcom history. She is a high class gold-digger that puts poor Todd Garrett(Jason Pace) through hell. So much so that when he took her to court that I was ecstatic but unfortunately the idiot had to feel sympathy for this loathsome tramp and dropped the case. William Dent(Reginald C Hayes) would be a likable character but his moronic horn dog ways makes it virtually impossible to do like him. He ruins what could have been a decent relationship with his boss(played by Anne Marie Johnson) to be a pig and is constantly running back to that gold-digging self-centered trollop Monica, even though her love for him was only on a financial level. Darnell Wilkes(Khalil Khan) seems somewhat smart till you realize that only a fool would put up with Maya for so long. There are plenty of episodes that make me disgusted with this show but there is one episode that is stuck in my mind eternally. The episode where William forgets to pose as Santa Claus(or Satan's Claws) for Jabari and the the girls were mad at him for that made me sick to my stomach. First of all we all know that Santa Claus is an imaginary character so you're going to get angry at William because he doesn't cater fairy tales to a little boy that needs to be fed truth in order to be a mentally stable adult? How insane is that? And we wonder why these kids grow up to so destructive. If they are fed these poisonous fairy tales all their lives how can they deal with reality? Any Black parent that feeds their kids these harmful tall tales needs to be locked up for the rest of their natural lives. <br /><br />In closing, Girlfriends is wildly overrated and symbolizes everything thats wrong with modern Black sitcoms. Back in the day bourgeoisie morons criticized shows like Frank's Place, Different World, Roc, The Cosby Show and Parent Hood for being unrealistic and preachy but those shows were way over their snooty heads and were leaps and bounds over the rubbish that passes for sitcoms now. As for the comparisons to Living Single, don't make me laugh. Living Single might not be deep but it had class and you don't despise the characters of that show. Sure they were pretty goofy but they were likable characters. The characters of Girlfriends are so repulsive that you just want them to get them to get trampled by a stampede consisting of the starting lineup of every team on the NFL. You cranks that want to be entertained instead of being "preached to" have found your mindless junk food. Enjoy it and savor every bite. Pretty soon there will be a Black Michael Bay to satisfy your appetite for mindless action movies with no substance. As for me I will not go near another Black sitcom. I am always anxious to see Black people on the TV screen but when all I'm getting is chittlin circuit trash like Girlfriends, Eve, Cuts, The Game and Half and Half , I begin to lose hope for quality Black shows because every show that was cool like All Of Us is countered by dreck like the shows I just mentioned.