Edmund Goulding's Grand Hotel is a perfect example of how a flawed film can still be great because of its blemishes, and not in spite of them. Winner of the Best Picture Academy Award of 1933 (but not even nominated in any other category), it is an indisputable classic that stands apart as one of the finest (and most timeless) motion pictures of the 30's -- which was a terrific decade for the cinema. The story structure was essentially unprecedented -- with the exception of that same year's Freaks, which was unprecedented in practically every way possible -- in that it featured multiple characters with independent relationships and intertwining narratives (in other words, it laid the groundwork for every Robert Altman film ever made -- Gosford Park in particular). Greta Garbo plays a dancer staying at a hotel along with a thief disguised as a baron (John Barrymore), a young and beautiful stenographer (Joan Crawford), a stern businessman (Wallace Beery), a fidgety social outcast trying to enjoy what's left of his life (Lionel Barrymore), and a mysterious doctor (Lewis Stone). The mysticism and coincidence of multiple people dealing with secret issues in the same location remains one of the most compelling and intriguing film techniques out there (see Todd Solondz's Happiness and P.T. Anderson's Magnolia), and it was certainly more compelling than most of what was being produced by Hollywood at the time (in spite of the fact that this WAS a great time for film, most pictures relied on very conventional and often contrived styles to achieve their popularity). So to think that the Academy once recognized such offbeat masterpieces makes you wonder what happened to them over the past few years. Even after 70+ years, Grand Hotel remains just as brilliant and fascinating as it was to begin with -- if not more: each character is as dynamic and enthralling as the next, and each frame is filled with surprises and idiosyncrasies. Perhaps Pauline Kael put it best when she wrote, "If you want to see what screen glamour used to be, and what originally 'stars' were, this is perhaps the best example of all time." Indeed, the stars in Grand Hotel are true stars, the foremost being Garbo: while often cited as one of the great actresses, few seem to recall how mesmerizing Garbo truly was. She hardly ever appeared to be acting, yet every gesture she made and every word she spoke was magnificently overdone -- as would have been necessary during her silent roles. And even though her beauty is far from conventional, it is truly undeniable. When first released, Crawford was notoriously frustrated that Garbo received top billing (she was rumored to have always arrived late on the set, playing Marlene Dietrich records in between cuts just because she knew they were Garbo's pet peeves), but to me this only enhances the characters: Crawford's role is supposed to be more subdued (afterall, she IS the stenographer and Garbo IS the celebrity in the film). Perhaps the most impressive performance of all is Lionel Barrymore's: as a bumbling, overly anxious everyman who has been ignored his entire life, he is completely and utterly heart-breaking; there is not a single moment when he isn't in character (and the same goes for the rest of the cast). His real-life brother John Barrymore is equally outstanding, providing a suave counterpart to Lionel's subtle melancholy. Goulding's direction is nothing short of spectacular: his innovative use of close-ups and repeated set-ups is something to be admired -- especially at a time when there was no precedent for these methods. The script (which was originally a play) is filled with both wit and insight (yet no Oscar nod?). Earlier in this review I made mention of the film's supposed flaws, and Grand Hotel is indeed far from perfect; many of the cuts are rough and uneven, and some of the plot developments come off as sudden and unbelievable, but the film is only better for it. Its faults give it an edge that would have otherwise been replaced by an overly polished look which wouldn't be nearly as compelling. All in all, Grand Hotel is an absolute masterpiece, plain and simple. Watch it and be amazed.<br /><br />Grade: A+<br /><br />(#88 on my All-Time Top 100 list. Visit http://imdb.com/board/bd0000002/thread/6917771 to view the entire list)