Apparently "Jason Goes to Hell: The Final Friday" was intended to be the last film of the series, which it is, if you don't count 2003's "Freddy Vs. Jason" as Friday film. This movie starts out with a beautiful young woman in a cabin in the middle of the woods one night (wow, original). She is chased through the woods (wrapped in a bath towel) by Jason, who is then blown up by a mob of FBI swat men into complete smithereens. After his remains are taken to a biology lab, the psycho maniac seems to live on through his heart... and he begins to take over other human's bodies. So, he begins his psychotic slaughter rampage through out the Crystal Lake area, in the body of the coroner who was in charge of his remains, slashing and hacking up teens and others who (unfortunately) happen to cross his path.<br /><br />I enjoyed this film alright, but the whole concept of it was a little far-fetched for me. The whole idea of Jason's 'soul' living on in another body completely threw this out of what one would expect in a "Friday the 13th" installment. Aside from this kooky idea, the film has some neat visual effects and is loaded with a heavy amount of gore. Just rent the unrated DVD and you'll see just how bloody this thing is. Along with the gore there is the typical premarital sex between some dumb teens, who ultimately get hacked to death (quite brutally I might add) by Jason one evening. The movie is enjoyable, fun horror if you don't take it seriously. But when it comes down to it, the removal of Jason's body (I suppose that's how you'd say it), this movie is yanked out of the series and doesn't seem to fit very well with the rest (much like "Jason X"). And the weird ending featuring Freddy Krueger's hand (which is now explained by "Freddy Vs. Jason") was a little far out there.<br /><br />Overall, if you're a fan of the series, you'll want to see this I'm sure. While it may not be very good, there is plenty of gore to offer and a few nice touches. But more than likely fans of this series will be disappointed with this movie. 4/10.