SPOILERS !!!SPOILERS !!!SPOILERS !!!SPOILERS !!!SPOILERS !!!SPOILERS !!!<br /><br />I don't share this opinion, but I can see why many fans of the series say that this ninth film is the worst in the series. The Jason Vorhees saga started in the early 80's. Spread over 8 films, Jason ( and his mother) have killed almost 100 people in very horrible ways. Jason goes to hell starts with a complete new theory...wich is pretty dumb, I'll give it that. But still, there's as much blood and terror represented in this film as there is in all the other ( to say the least, in fact ) According to a bountyhunter ( who is a pretty good maniac himself ), Jason can be killed for good if a relative of his destroys his heart. If they don't, Jason comes to life again and shall go on killing till eternity. Until Jason finds a family member of his, he keeps on changing bodies. This twist given to his personality kills the magic that is Friday the 13th a bit, that much is true. I never was a giant fan of the series. I've seen them all and liked them but I never agreed with the statement that Friday the 13th is THE best series in horror. Now, I do know a lot of people who think that Jason is as important to horror as Christopher Columbus was to geography, so they think this ninth installment in the series never should have been made. If you're a horror lover in general, you can still enjoy the huge amount of bloody slaughters without paying much attention to the storyline. If you're a diehard Jason Vorhees fan ( or want to become one) ...watch the whole series in a row and judge for yourself if this movie can be considered as blasphemy or not. One other thing is very obvious about this movie : it tries to be more funny than its predecessors and makes several attempt to spoof the genre and the most famous slasher collegues of Jason. For example, when a cop asks where Steven is, the girls answers "He's in front of the MYERS' house!" Funny, huh ? Also, the Necronomicon lies in Jason's basement and when he finally dies, his hockey-mask is grabbed away by the hand of Freddy Krueger himself. So, if you like a good amount of trivia to come with your horror...The Final Friday won't let you down!