Rose (Juliette Binoche) is at the airport, trying to go to Mexico. Something is amiss, as she is talking incessantly on her cellphone and looking distressed. As bad luck turns worse, she drops her phone into a running commode and that's that. Needing to continue her conversation, she turns to Felix (Jean Reno), who has been likewise speaking into his mobile. Felix is a chef about to launch a new line of frozen meals and he has been making several critical phone calls as well. The two of them share his phone, to the point where calls are coming in for both of them and getting entangled. Felix learns that Rose is perhaps running away from her abusive boyfriend, Sergio, and is startled when the arrogant flame actually comes to the airport for an encounter with Rose, which goes badly. As the airport is experiencing massive problems, Felix invites Rose to stay with him, as friends only, in the hotel room he has been given for the night. Can the beautiful, but heavily made-up beauty consultant/masseuse, Rose, with her excitable personality and the staid, business-oriented chef really strike up something more than friendship? This films starts off nicely, with an intriguing concept and two great stars in Binoche and Reno. Viewers may be startled to see Binoche done up as a Barbie-type glamor girl but things can change, yes. Reno, too, seems miscast as a romantic lead but sometimes the quiet ones can sneak up on one, too, right? With a film that sports good sets, costumes, and photography, one might expect the movie to succeed without hesitation. But, after the initial half hour, things get a bit bogged down, especially since most of the remainder is a dialogue between Rose and Felix and in a hotel room. Even so, the stars make things work, as they inspire the viewer to want to discover if opposites not only attract but fall in love. If you love romantic drama and can handle a film with subtitles or dubbing, you might like to try Jet Lag as a choice for an evening's entertainment.