This movie has to be the most offensive movie to raging conservatives to ever come out of Hollywood. It is about all things gay. It's over the top and silly, but funny and enlightening in a way. What would happen if the daughter of a Republican Senator who was part of some sort of conservative coalition was marrying a man who's father is gay and lives with a cross dressing diva. That's the setup of The Birdcage, an Americanized version of the French film La Cage Aux Folles, and becomes a fun look at how some members of the gay community have to try to straighten themselves out in the right circumstances, and how difficult that really is. Robin Williams plays Armand Goldman, a Jewish gay man who had a one-night stand with Christine Baranski (he just wanted to know what all the fuss was about) and had a son, Val (played by Dan Futterman). Futterman's performance is a highlight in the movie, an understated, confused role that carries the sanity in the movie. Armand lives with Albert, who's stage name is "Starina," played perfectly by Nathan Lane. The shrieks, the clothes, so much over the top comes from Lane's character that it's hard not to laugh. Val comes home, as he's about to marry his girlfriend of I guess 45 minutes, both are extremely young, played by Calista Flockhart, before her Ally McBeal days. Her father is the conservative Senator, played with a self-important whimsy by Gene Hackman. The problems come from the big dinner where the parents finally meet, and the real mom is late. This means Albert needs to become Val's mother, and we find out all of that cross dressing was worth it. The manic action that takes place when they try to first turn Albert straight, then as a woman carries the movie. It is all setup through the first half of the film. The second half has all of the comedic fireworks and is what makes the film memorable. That, and Hank Azaria's character Spartacus, a flamboyant Greek housekeeper for Armand and Albert. Azaria has said he used his grandmother as a model for this role, and it shows through. Little jokes are what make the movie, so keep you ears open, and your toast un-pierced.