**Mild spoiler** So, poaching is a big problem in Tibet, eh? Some moral Chinese fighting poaching and extinction of antelopes in Tibet. How moving!! But may I ask what caused the poaching and extinction of animals in Tibet? These were caused by China's illegal and amoral occupation of Tibet and greedy exploitation of Tibetan people. The attitude of the Chinese Communist government, which doesn't give a damn about Tibetan people or its culture, is well reflected in the attitude of Chinese criminals who go to Tibet. These criminals do not care about Tibetan people, its culture or the land. They poach Tibetan animals themselves and encourage poverty-stricken Tibetans to poach so they can make money. The quickest solution to the poaching problem in Tibet is for China to return Tibet to its people and get out of Tibet!! Why didn't this movie give us this obvious and most logical solution to poaching in Tibet? Treating extinction of some antelopes in Tibet as if it is the greatest problem in Tibet is absolutely laughable. The greatest problem in Tibet is illegal invasion and occupation of Tibet by China and Chinese people. Is the Beijing journalist played by Liang Qi totally stupid or totally blind? Can't he see this obvious problem? Does the producer of this film think that just because they made some film condemning the poaching and extinction of some species of antelopes in Tibet, the Tibetans will love Chinese, who stole their land and massacred their people? Showing some token kindness is not going to erase the crimes committed by Chinese against Tibetan people.<br /><br />This movie is a disgusting self-congratulatory nonsense made by some government influenced Chinese film producers. Although it is much more subtle, this is a propaganda movie just like the anti-Jewish Nazi film "The Eternal Jew." I am nauseated to read the high praise written by some Americans and Japanese about this propaganda film. Did these Americans and Japanese lower themselves to the level of Chinese government mouthpiece? By the way, why was this movie awarded Don Quixote Award in Berlin? Are those Berlin judges insane? I have repeatedly criticized this movie because of its disgusting propaganda. I am glad that my repeated criticism has angered some self-appointed Chinese patriots. In China any criticism of the state and its policy is punished severely and the critics are silenced swiftly. If my comment against this film is a criticism of Chinese government, I cannot help it. One cannot criticize dangerous propaganda films like this without criticizing the underlying policies of the government which made the film. It is like commenting about a disgusting film like "Eternal Jew" without attacking Nazism.<br /><br />These Chinese patriots cannot silence me here in the United States, a country of free speech. If these Chinese patriots were not thick-skinned enough to take criticism, I would tell them, "Welcome to the world of free speech."