OK, only half-joking about the one line summary (alluding to the B. Boys throughout this comment), I am a huge Beastie Boys fan (and most of hip-hop in general; Run-D.M.C. are the kings). Yes, Flip (Danny Hoch), Trevor (Marc Webber), and James (Dash Mihok) are respectable emcees (no where as good as the Beasties) and have good hearts, but they live in a fantasy land. They are so caught up in their dreams of living the "good life", that they don't recognize how bad things are in reality. Flip seems to be the one who has the most trouble accepting things the way they are. His father has been laid off and his mother uses food stamps to pay for groceries, and above all, he has gotten his girlfriend Sara (Piper Perabo) pregnant. He is so caught up in the "false" glamour of the ghetto lifestyle, that he thinks he's black and practices explaining his 'hood background in front of a mirror. Really, the biggest problem is he just can't accept that he's white and living in Iowa, and that his only black friend is Khalid (Eugene Byrd), who quickly becomes disgusted with the way Flip and his friends are acting.<br /><br />Now, not that the "Whiteboyz" are splitting images of their New York counterparts (Mike D, Ad-Rock, and MCA), but they are going to experience the same harsh public criticisms that the Beastie Boys had gone through, and I suspect that if they hit it big (which they won't), they won't shape up their act (like the Beasties did) and become respectable rap artists. Even so, "Whiteboyz" doesn't aim to stand as a cautionary fable against whites in hip-hop, but more as a metaphor for the progressive movement of the music into non-African-American audiences. I mean, Flip lives in Iowa for crying out loud! The Beasties themselves, who before becoming involved with Def Jam, were three untalented punkers, who knew little if anything about hip-hop and eventually moved into rap and became the three great emcees they are today. Flip was the same way before, a slob I don't know, but he certainly acted differently from the way he acts in the beginning of the film. <br /><br />Anyways, unlike their New York counterparts, these "'boys" live in a fictionalized world where it will take an act of total stupidity to wake them up from this fantasy. Yes, by the end, the walls are all going to come crashing down.<br /><br />"Whiteboyz" is undoubtedly one of the best films about hip-hop I have ever seen, and it shouldn't be missed by anyone. True it's geared towards a black audience (I'm African-American myself), but you can tell by the films central themes and the subject matter, it's geared more towards a white audience. Even so, don't miss it, regardless of skin color.<br /><br />9/10