**SPOILERS** devastated by the loss of his ten-year-old daughter Mary, Pamelyn Ferdin, in a car accident that he holds himself responsible for well known cybernetics professor Samuel Constable, Ray Milland, has been visiting her grave almost every day. This was starting to worry his invalid wife Lenore, Gene Tireny, in feeling that he's going insane. It's some three months after the accident that Prof. Constable starts to believe that there may well be something very psychologically wrong with him when one evening driving home he runs into, and almost runs over, a live Mary Constable walking along a lonely road.<br /><br />Being a man of science Prof. Constable doesn't believe in anything like ghosts or the supernatural but after seeing and talking to Mary he starts to believe in it. At the insistence of a friend Dr. Frank Furgerson, George Macready, Prof. Constable goes to see a man who could help him solve this dilemma Dr. Alex Lauder, Don Murray. Dr. Lauder is one of the worlds biggest expert in the field of parapsychology. Dr. Lauder is so impressed by what Prof. Constable tells him and what he sees and hears himself, in Mary's sudden appearance at the Constable home. That makes Dr. Lauder almost a true believer, like Prof. Constable, in the supernatural. This leaves the door open for Dr. Lauder to investigate if all these ghostly events are real or somehow manipulated by people behind the scenes.<br /><br />Not what you would expect at first "Daughter of the Mind" is a lot more then a ghost story it also has a lot to do with the defense of the United States that Prof. Constable is very much involved in his top secret work for the Pentagon. Mary in her appearances keeps telling her father, Prof. Constable, about all the bad he's doing in helping develop weapons of war for the US military. It's for that reason that she's somehow trapped in an in-between or astral world and will never find peace. That's until her father stops doing anymore research for the US government. <br /><br />Prof. Constable's weird behavior also attracts the US governments intelligent agencies in the person of CIC agent Saul Wiener, Edward Asner, who's having him and now Dr. Lauder followed day and night. The CIC and Agent Wiener feels that Prof. Constable is being duped into defecting to the Soviet Union by these "visions" that he's been having about his dead daughter Mary.<br /><br />Very well made-for-TV movie that's as good as any film that was released in the theaters back in 1969. with an intelligent script and believable ending, an ending far too believable for a movie about the world of the supernatural and dark sciences. The supernatural is handled in a very unusual and honest way in the film by at first not trying to disprove it and then trying to make those who believe in look like gullible and mindless fanatics. At the same time not hit the audience over the head with it, the supernatural. By making it look like anyone who doesn't believe that such a world, beyond the proof of modern science, exist is a slave to what he, or she, was thought in school. As well totally lacking in any kind of constructive and abstract imagination of the unseen and unknown world, or worlds, around us. Which over the years brought into being some of the greatest achievements and advancements in the world of science and medicine.