Ah...my type of rotten 80's cheesy exactly! "Nail Gun Massacre" is commonly known as one of the absolute lousiest slashers ever – a reputation it definitely lives up to – but I couldn't help enjoying every insipid moment of it! The god-awful acting performances, the pointless gratuitous boob shots, the thoroughly lousy dialogues, the extreme gore!!! Simply wonderful or, to say it with the biggest cliché in horror reviewing, they just don't make 'em like this anymore! The least you can say about Bill Leslie's and Terry Lofton's "masterpiece" is that it doesn't waste any valuable time. The whole point of the movie is already illustrated during the three-minute pre-credits intro, when a bunch of hillbilly construction workers rape a defenseless girl. Only seconds later, one of them is already severely punished for his naughty behavior by a dude completely dressed in black and operating the titular tool as a murder weapon. All this during a brief intro and the best is yet to come! After the credits, that uses cheesy laughter for music, the handy avenger cheerfully continues to nail people down, only now he says something really stupid every time he fires his gun. After a good twenty minutes, half of the redneck population is already dead, while the local doctor and dumb sheriff are still cleaning up the blood of the first victim. The pacing slows down a little then, since new moronic characters need to be introduced first. But, no worries, the gore only gets sicker, the sleaze only gets...um...sleazier, and the killer's one-liners only get more retarded. Too bad his victims die so painfully before they get to hear his witty remarks. Also, the initial revenge motive doesn't stand anymore, as he's just randomly wasting horny teenagers like the average 80's slasher icon. Forget about tension or mystery surrounding the culprit's identity... You need none of that when there already is a guy waving around a nail gun! I'm rewarding this crazed flick with a 10 out of 10 rating, for sheer awfulness but most of all because it's the single most entertaining 80's slasher out there! Absolute most hilarious line: (whilst aiming at two pretty young girls) "It's time to do your nails". Total must-see!