If you're looking for a proper horror movie, skip this one keep on looking. If however, you're a fan of the so-called "so bad it's good" movies, keep on reading.<br /><br />I've seen lots of the so-called "so bad it's good" movies, including the notorious TROLL 2. I can say without reservation that THE NAIL GUN MASSACRE is at the top of the pile and far surpasses many slasher movies intended to be taken seriously. It is also cheaper than virtually every other movie made. It makes most B-movies look like high-budget Hollywood classics. The chances are that the spare change in your wallet probably amounts to more than the budget of this movie! This is very typical slasher fare with a very simple plot - a woman is raped by a group of construction workers. Soon after, a wave of killings by an unknown assailant armed with a nail gun begin. A doctor and a sheriff try to catch the said assailant.<br /><br />This grade Z movie truly is a classic of unintentional humour. All the way down from the killer's incredibly funny one-liners to a woman screaming non-stop for several minutes (this gag later being used in NUTBAG) to the sheriff's mysterious badge (which just happens to move from one side of his shirt to another between shots!) to random moronic characters showing up out of nowhere just to be killed to the cheesy special effects (the nails are actually real and not rubber as some other commenters have stated), this is truly a tremendous piece of work. It is almost certainly guaranteed to please any trash movie lover and leave you with the feeling that maybe TROLL 2 was quite competently made after all! The killer in this movie is seemingly deliberately made as ridiculous as possible. He wears a camouflage jumpsuit with a yellow oxygen tank on his back, a motorcycle helmet held together with duck tape, carries a nail gun attached to the oxygen tank by a piece of curly telephone wire, drives around in a gold hearse and speaks in a modified robotic-style voice similar to Darth Vader! I'm not making this up, seriously! His height and build also changes through the course of the movie because the director hired two stunt doubles, one of which happens to be female! A massive number of victims (about 15) get killed by the unknown assailant. The murders themselves are also ridiculously executed. People literally die even though they've only had nails fired into their arms or legs. I think you get the idea. Tons of random people show up just for the purpose of being killed and only a few main characters exist. Almost every scene seems to contain a completely different set of people compared to the previous.<br /><br />And the rape scene! How can I describe it? It has to be the lamest rape scene committed to film. This is no I SPIT ON YOUR GRAVE, so don't panic and assume you'll see anything particularly upsetting or disturbing. All you get to see is a fully clothed woman crying her eyes out for a few seconds as a few burly construction workers molest her and the scene ends quickly with seemingly 20 or so construction workers there to join in the fun. Priceless comedy.<br /><br />Also contained within the movie is a very funny outdoor sex scene which the director famously describes as being as close to the real thing as possible. This scene, along with all the random gratuitous topless nudity shown throughout, was added to please the distributors. The sex scene is without doubt one of the funniest you'll ever see.<br /><br />The movie's low rating is probably due to an inaccuracy of marketing on the part of the distributors. This should have been marketed as a comedy. If so, it would have enjoyed the popularity of spoofs such as SHAUN OF THE DEAD. Instead, the distributors decided to market it as a typical 80s slasher in the same vain as such movies as THE TOOLBOX MURDERS, BODY COUNT, THE HOUSE ON SORORITY ROW, MY BLOODY VALENTINE and so on. This was an obvious attempt to cash-in on the slasher boom at the time. Unfortunately, it didn't work and the movie drifted into obscurity until the eventual DVD release in 2005. The said DVD contains a documentary in which the director talks about the movie and tries to explain away some of its shortcomings. It too is a must see for fans of this movie.<br /><br />All in all an absolute must-see for all fans of the "so bad it's good" movie genre.