I didn't intend to write a comment on this movie, but when I looked at the comments that are here, I was totally shocked to find so many people saying the movie is "great." I had to post this comment in an effort to balance things out just a little. I can only hope that it's some huge and elaborate practical joke that all these positive comments have been posted. Now, I must admit that I missed the first few minutes of the movie. Perhaps that would've made a difference. But I really don't think it would! I came in at a point early on, where Anthony Edwards is about to get some sleep, after which the power goes out and he wakes up late. Whatever happened before that may have been the most terrific piece of filmmaking ever, and maybe by missing that I missed the true "greatness" of the movie. But I highly doubt it.<br /><br />Where I came in was, I believe, where the plot really starts. And I understood who was who quite well enough. The movie was a little odd, and quirky right from the start (where I came in,) but not SO odd that I couldn't stick with it. I stayed with the movie just because the concept of the movie was intriguing enough to keep me watching. But as the movie progressed it got weirder and weirder, and the writing got dumber and dumber!<br /><br />I finally reached the "point of no return," where you finish the movie not because you're enjoying it, but because you've already invested so much time in it that you figure you might as well finish it off. The movie got increasingly bad all the way to the end. The characters did some of the most infuriatingly stupid things that I think I've ever seen. And I do mean STUPID. I want to say the acting was bad, but looking back I don't know that that's true. I think the primary actors were putting a lot into it, but the characters were so ridiculous, it made it seem that the acting was bad. Plus there was not enough character development to make some of the situations seem as natural as they maybe could have. So if I had to point to one thing as the reason this movie stinks, it'd be the writing. It was totally moronic. The acting by the primary stars wasn't the worst I've ever seen, but it wasn't great. The acting by every one else...well, let's just say it wasn't GOOD. I don't know if the movie was cheap to make, but I really hope it was, because it really looked it.<br /><br />The movie was just all around bad. Battlefield Earth would be able to stand next to this one and hold its head up high. And Battlefield Earth was rotten. Again, I can only pray that all these positive comments about this movie are part of some huge prank. The only other way I can imagine that all the positive remarks got here is that the director of the movie is now unemployed and has all day to write and post new ones. Perhaps to trick people into buying the movie, so he can get some money for food. But let me end by WARNING all who have not seen the movie, but have read all the positive comments and are considering buying it: PLEASE, for your own sake, DO NOT buy Miracle Mile! If you feel you must see it, rent it first!! Or heck, wait for it to play on television; if you have to wait forever, you won't be missing anything! TRUST ME!