This film has been on my wish list for years and years. I'd heard so many people commenting that it was one of the best paranoid movies ever. Now, I love suspenseful thrillers and there has been some amazing movies based on an apocalyptic scenario; The Day After, Dawn of the Dead, 12 Monkeys, 28 Days Later, Planet of the Apes, Terminator etal, so was really looking forward to this movie. The synopsis to Miracle Mile sounded really cool, angsty and believable, but what I found myself watching was probably one of the most unbelievably annoying, cheesy, badly acted, badly directed, and badly edited movies I've seen in a long time. In a nutshell it was awful, made worse by the fact that it could have been quite brilliant. As I said the story had the potential to be something special, but the clumsy screenplay and shoddy direction nuked that idea right out the window. It was also oddly camp as hell, quite an achievement for a film depicting the end of the world. Fair enough the 80's trappings didn't help, but what was unforgivable was the performances by EVERYONE involved. What the hell was everyone on? Did they all assume they were shooting the worst film of their careers and therefore were too embarrassed to deliver anything remotely like a competent performance? Every part of this film sucked, right through to the retarded ending with the bloody daft helicopter, complete with a HUGE gay lycra cald pilot (bizarrely played by the hulking Brian Thompson of X-files fame). The only, thing that made it almost worthwhile was seeing this rubbish nuked off the screen at the end. So to surmise, if you want to watch a nuclear thriller with unintentional laughs which is camper than a row of Rocky Horror Show fans then I'd point you to Wargames, because I simply can't recommend Miracle Mile to anybody. Not even the director of this crap, who by rights should be forced to watch this movie again, and again until he publicly denounces his film as the worst since Howard the Duck. Hang on a minute, maybe those two crapfests would make a suitably horrid double bill in purgatory.