Let's say you're going to work one morning and, from space, a meteor hits you in the mouth and breaks your jaw. After you recover and return to work, you might tell this story to your co-workers and, given the sheer inanity of the situation, you might relate the story in a humorous fashion. Despite not having any experience as a comedian, you would still be infinitesimally more humorous than "10 Items or Less", TBS's new attempt at killing laughter throughout the known world. This is the type of show you can watch all the way through without laughing, smiling or possibly ever feeling happiness again.<br /><br />The premise is woefully unoriginal in so many ways- A group of ineffective people working at a supermarket. Let's take a look at that sentence You can replace the word "supermarket" with any other place of business and you will still have the exact same show. In this case, you could even replace the word "people" with "hulking piles of scrap iron" and it would have no effect on the shows quality.<br /><br />The show is supposedly a loosely scripted, predominantly improvisational work. However, none of the cast proves quick-thinking enough to deliver jokes, but rather try to pass off odd and quirky behavior as humorous, and for the most part they fail at that, too. The cast isn't simply bad at being supermarket employees, they're actually bad at playing human beings- In several scenes it's is actually possible to see an actor's soul leave their body to make their performance more awkward and less human.<br /><br />One can't help but wonder how it is that TBS, who has proved to be pretty smart about which shows to run in syndication, can keep giving the green light to bad shows like this. There have been Challenger space shuttle disasters funnier than this show, which I might add, wasn't as fanatically over-advertised as "10 Items of Less" was. I suspect that this show is just one unfunny step of many in TBS's plan to make their network so unwatchable that they can use their airtime to transmit messages to the New World Order out in the open And sadly, for fear of accidentally seeing more awful programming like this, no one will be the wiser.