Although I do not doubt for a second that elements of The Squid And The Whale are entirely fictional, the lesson to be learned here is that one need not create elaborate scenarios or effects in order to create compelling viewing. The Squid And The Whale will shock, offend, maybe even revolt at times, but its steady pace and realism will create quite a memorable experience for those who are burned on hundred million dollar blockbusters that attempt to make the unreal seem everyday, and usually fail. This is old-school film-making, along the lines of Taxi Driver or The Verdict. Quite honestly, there ought to be more of it. Okay, it is not perfect, but it is quite an interesting story. The film may based on real experiences of writer/director Noah Baumbach, but it could be about any family alienated by a society that is at once trying to lead them in a direction while neglecting them on the process of coping with the journey. Put simply, anyone who has experienced anything like it will relate.<br /><br />Oddly enough, I keep reading comments about how this film is a story about how growing up in a "liberal" family can mess one's mind up. Sadly, there is no such thing in America, and no real statement is made about a family environment other than how fighting parents can rub off on the children. No, this is a story about more than just who brings up their offspring the right way or whose approach works. Social problems as demonstrated by the Berkman brothers are universal. Don't believe me? I grew up in a household where the combined gross income was in the six figure range, and the incidents described in this film pale in comparison to some of those I will likely never write into my memoirs. Such is the price of growing up in the 1980s with a distinct difference from all around you hard-wired into your brain. Having said that, do not confuse my disapproval of my own family for approval of this one. I laughed, I cried, I even swore, and all of these reactions were inspired by the same feeling: utter disbelief.<br /><br />Jeff Daniels and Laura Linney play parents divided by pressure and growing contempt in a manner that is, quite seriously, Oscar-worthy. Jesse Eisenberg and Owen Kline prove they have a future in the business as they act out the sons caught in the middle. Owen Kline is especially compelling as the younger, and the reactions he is called upon to portray at times are as well-acted as they are repulsive. But as so often happens in a film she is part of, Anna Paquin steals the entire show as Lili, a student part of one of Daniels' classes who eventually moves in with him, adding to the confusing situation the boys find themselves in. I have said this elsewhere, but it goes to show how bent the Hollywood system is that Paquin can win an Oscar for her part in a piece of pseudo-dramatic-feminist fluff like The Piano, but she acts rings around most of her costars in a genuinely good drama like The Squid And The Whale without getting noticed. Anyone who thinks her Oscar win was just an early fluke clearly has not seen this piece.<br /><br />As I said, The Squid And The Whale is slowly paced. Those expecting action or comedy will be disappointed, and its short running length is one of its graces. Like Ebert once said, editing can be both the soul and salvation of cinema. I would estimate that at least half a year's events are told in The Squid And The Whale's eighty minutes, taking time-compression to quite a dramatic level. This is also the first time I would place an American film on the same rung as one of the Dutch-language pieces that has elevated Paul Verhoeven to godhood in my viewpoint. Made for less than two million dollars according to estimates, The Squid And The Whale, while certainly not the best film I have invested my time in, is exactly the kind of production the American studio system needs to invest more in, not less. With budgets for the blockbusters rocketing to ridiculous levels, it is refreshing to see someone turn off the money hose and rely upon their storytelling skills. However, there are some complaints to be made, for certain.<br /><br />Perhaps an actual resident of Brooklyn in 1986 can be more specific about this, but I thought the period and culture were well-represented in this film. At no point did my disbelief scream "this film was shot in 2004", which means I missed the visible poster of a wrestling star who did not make his debut in 2001. Such was the quality of the photography, planning, and performances. Also amusing is that just nine years ago, Anna Paquin was playing Jeff Daniels' daughter. You know time has caught up with you when you start noticing little facts like that about an actor you'd happily watch reading the phone book. Unfortunately, while keeping the length of the film to a minimum and editing out all but the most important details keeps the film from being excruciating, it is still terribly slow. The film relies a lot on the absurdity of the situation to create humour that keeps the viewer tuned in, but the film never goes quite far enough to keep this consistent. As a result, a fraction of the running time is spent wondering if this film is going to go anywhere.<br /><br />That is why I gave The Squid And The Whale a seven out of ten despite its more impressive elements. Fans of the principal cast or European-style film will be enthralled. Others should tread carefully.