I certainly was surprised to see Michael T. Weiss in this dirty dog of a movie! SPOILERS: I guess this must have been the low-point of his life. Weiss plays the husband of a visibly older woman who is a writer that just had a nervous breakdown. That mental health issue is pretty much useless as a plot twist in this movie, since it is pretty obvious from the get-go that the townies are hiding something. The fact that there are no children, dogs, cats, or other pets in the entire town might be a hint that something is not normal. The cranky & suspicious attitude of the townies might be another hint. One dumb plot-hole is that Weiss bought (not rented) this home in the woods, and yet neither he nor his wife had ever seen it. No doubt if they had visited the town before buying the house, this dumb movie would not have been necessary. Amazingly, there is one town tramp who is constantly dropping hints at Weiss. After a few days of Weiss hearing his wife complain about howling noises, Weiss visits the town slattern and she immediately drops her skirt and seduces Weiss. Of course, the next night when Weiss visits the townie in order to commit adultery, she bites him. Later Weiss turns into a big pile of goo and then reconstitutes himself as a Werewolf. The scene is similar something from DEAD ALIVE, including a loose eyeball dropping out of the skull. The Town Doctor rips open his visibly latex jaw and becomes the head Wolfie and a few other guys transform, and the rubber masks being pushed into place are less than amazing special effects. Meanwhile, as Marie and her Husband had drifted apart, a former Nun who is looking for information about the death of her Nun friend meets Marie, and they hit it off. The two women figure out that the town is full of Werewolves, and that the key to killing them all is by ringing the bell in the Tower of Drago (imported from Drago, Transylvania stone-by-stone). Thanks to a handy candle, Marie torches the Tower with all the Wolfies inside, and her friend too. Everyone dies except Marie. This movie is dreadfully monotonous and even the various (mild) sex scenes have absolutely nothing in the way of chemistry or titillation. Someone pointed out that the most charming character in this movie was Marie's dog, and it is true. The dog seemed to be the only one having fun, and sadly, the dog was eaten early into the movie.