Despite the fact that most of them are complete crap, I do actually consider myself a fan of the Jaws rip-offs. I've had a copy of this film for a long while but I've continually put off watching it, and the reason for that is simply down to the running time; 127 minutes is far, far too long for a silly and trashy Jaws rip off. That being said, this film is more like a trashy and exploitative soap opera than a Jaws rip-off, but even so; the runtime is still far too long. It almost feels like the scenes of the shark have been thrown in as an afterthought, and that possibly could be the case; as aside from a few minor events, the shark hardly figures in the movie at all. The plot is actually quite complicated, but to cut a long story short; what we basically have is two men who meet on holiday and soon fall out over a girl. Soon after that they become friends again and decide to go womanising together, several times. They're so busy with their womanising that they don't realise that some of their girlfriends are being picked off by a hungry tiger shark! <br /><br />It's a shame that the film is more like a soap opera than a horror movie really because the horror parts of the film are actually not bad, it's just the dull and tedious 'drama' side of it that lets it down. The film really does drag far too often, and that's really not what you want from a film that is supposed to be fun. The version of the film that I saw looks like it had been pieced together from two different sources as half of it was in English (dubbed) and the other half was in Spanish. This actually gives the film a rather surreal feel as the language is constantly chopped and changed. When the shark actually does feature, we do at least get some good gore with it and several of these sequences are actually really well worked. The film is somewhat notorious for its animal killing scenes and that's hardly surprising because plenty of fish get butchered and it's not nice viewing - worse than Cannibal Holocaust, that is for sure! The underwater scenes are really good, however - but a lot of them are probably just documentary footage spliced into the film. It all boils down to a decent enough conclusion, but I cant bring myself to really like this film because it's just too much of a mess. Cool title though.