I cannot comment on how closely this film tracked to the real life events that it supposedly follows. But as a movie, it falls short of it's potential by lapsing into the preachy and stereotypical Hollywood style which has become so commonplace in today's cinema. I doubt there are many souls left today who would deny that the KKK did some horrific things, or that there wasn't a pervasive racist culture in the South in the early 60's. But if there are, this movie tries to dispel all remaining skeptics with the subtlety of a lead balloon. By trying to tie up hatred and bigotry into one neat little package (by compartmentalizing and homogenizing groups of people), the movie fails in a rather big way. I mean, how many times have we been fed the message that all southerners are ignorant racists, that all blacks are innocent bystanders barely capable of controlling their own destinies, or that liberal educated whites are the saviors of the human race. Hardly original (or truthful).<br /><br />Beyond the problem of the "message", the movie has other faults. William Dafoe just isn't, in my opinion, believable at all. From his overly done "Kennedy-esque" appearance to his constant idealistic waning (the obvious target being the "uneducated audience"), his authenticity never rings true. And did dozens upon dozens of FBI agents really wade into the Mississippi swamps without regard for their expensive suits? Well, if they did, perhaps it just shows that educated Northern white boys aren't that smart after all! Finally, if director Alan Parker's intent was to leave us in the lurch regarding Anderson's and Mrs. Pell's "relationship", he succeeded with flying colors.<br /><br />On a positive note, Gene Hackman's performance is excellent. He holds it all together....well, he IS the movie. His delivery, mannerisms and character make Mississippi Burning quite enjoyable to watch from a cinematic point of view. Also top notch was Brad Dourif as Deputy Pell. Their performances almost make up for a mediocre and all-too-often condescending film