Alan Parker's Mississippi Burning is a surprisingly good police thriller that mixes the intrigue and mystery of a police investigation with a commentary on American culture in the 1960's, and said people's attitudes towards racism. It's rare for a film to combine these elements properly, and many have failed at it, but through it's efficient pace and competent piecing together, Mississippi Burning achieves it's aim admirably. Mississippi Burning is a very professionally handled film and credit for that has to go to the director, who has a habit of putting together very professionally made films. The influence that this film has had on later crime investigation films such as the magnificent 'LA Confidential' is evident throughout, and that adds yet more credibility to the proceedings. In spite of it's turbulent plot, Alan Parker never sets out directly to shock the audience, and despite several scenes of violence, it's always the film's plot that takes centre stage and Alan Parker doesn't stray from that as many other directors have done. This film doesn't need to shock and offend to get it's message across.<br /><br />The plot follows the disappearance of three men - two of them white Jews and the other a young black man. We then follow the fortunes of two FBI men that come into town to investigate the disappearance. The acting in the movie is strong throughout, with William Dafoe and Gene Hackman heading a strong cast. The two stars do a great job of drawing the audience into the movie, and the two shine throughout. They are joined by a host of lesser-known stars, such as Frances McDormand, Brad Dourif, Stephen Tobolowsky and a great little turn from Michael Rooker as a racist KKK member. The themes that are implemented into the plot are impressively portrayed, with the social study being the most prominent of them. Mississippi Burning adequately denounces hatred, and does a great job of getting across the stupidity and pointlessness of it. The film is also notable for a great atmosphere throughout, which is matched by a great soundtrack that creates a very foreboding and tension filled feeling. My only real criticism of the movie is due to it's ending, which goes on a bit and kills the atmosphere that the film has done such a good job of creating. Still, this is a very good movie and one I don't hesitate to recommend!