I say the director was quite ambitious when he undertook the making of this film but i feel it paid off. The Indian audience are usually used to the 'masala ' type of movies which incorporates a little bit of everything and is not a bad thing at all (heck i was attracted to Bollywood movies for the very same masala!) so don't get me wrong. However this film offers something different, variety; which is sticking to one genre. What stood out for me the most; besides the brilliant acting of Priyanka , John and Shiny (all three are very talented and quite under rated performers) was the ambiance of the whole film. It was a dark tale of guilt and need for salvation...a noir and i think the director got it the 'T', specially in the song 'Tera Hi Karam'; which is full of shadows and 'blackness' which reflects the inner turmoil of the character 'John' and seems to follow him everywhere!I mean his closed are black and white (quite abstract and not as simple as it seems). The only elements of colour and light in his life are those in which his wife 'Shalini is a part of (that is, in the song and... actually in the film itself! ). However the colour and light seems to be threatened by shadows and darkness such as when ACP Singh searches John's house, you can hardly see any light and colour as it is half engulfed in darkness . The portrait of Shalini is half in shadow (perhaps a metaphor for the situation she is in or the shadow representing John himself and the effect he has on the life of his loved ones). I thought it had justified ending though I can understand why some people might get frustrated with it . Overall , i think people should give it a go and watch it with open minds and a clean slate and try not to read and judge using rigidly the conventions of traditional Indian cinema that most people are used to and it might surprise you and you'll find yourself enjoying it. Besides I am a big Shiny Ahuja fan so i might be a tad bit biased into trying to get you guys to watch it. It might just be your cup of tea xx