**SPOILERS** Even though the advertising for the movie "Spectres" makes it look like a ghost story it's a lot deeper and philosophical then you would have first expected it to be. The film is about two persons who become connected through death and how it in the end fulfills both of their wants and dreams that they couldn't have while they were still alive. Kelly Webber, Lauren Birkell, is very depressed over the loss of her dad at an early age and the loss of her mom Laura, Marina Sirtis, who never has time for her due to her job as a CPA at a large accountant firm in the city.<br /><br />As we see Kelly watering her front lawn at the beginning of the movie Linda, Renee Hansen, pull up with her van asking Kelly for directions to the local mall. Linda, together with her young son C.J ,Alexander Agate, seems to be a bit concerned with Kelly as if she could read her mind. Later that evening Linda get's killed in a car accident, her son C.J survived, and Kelly attempts to kill herself only to be brought back to life at the hospital.<br /><br />After recovering from her suicide attempt Mrs. Webber takes her teenage daughter Kelly to their summer home in the country to spend more time with her but just then things start to happen to both of them that are beyond the world of the living. At first thinking that Kelly is suffering from the aftermath of her suicide attempt Laura sends her to a psychiatrist Dr. Halsey, Dean Haglund. Dr. Halsey after examining her and seeing for himself what's happening to Kelly, and her mom back home, feels that whatever Kelly is suffering from is out of the realm of science and reality and goes to his friend Will Franklin, Tucker Smallwood, a psychic for help. It turns out that something strange and paranormal happened when both Kelly and Linda died,Kelly was resuscitated back to life,and it's that incident in death that somehow connected the two in life. <br /><br />"Spectres" is a lot like the famous James Stewart film "It's a Wonderful Life" in that it shows how precious one's life really is and, no matter how bad things are, throwing it away would not make things any better but make them much worse when one realizes what a mistake he, or she, made by doing that. You start to see, like Kelly does, what a waste it is when you give up the most precious gift that God gave you. At the same time you see through Linda, how after losing her life, how she took advantage of Kelly's mistake to make life better for her orphaned young son, C.J. Linda did this by getting Kelly to, sub-consciously, track down C.J and find his dad Sam Philips, Chris Hardwick; so that C.J can have someone to look after and care for him as he grows up into adulthood. <br /><br />The ending of the movie "Spectres" turns out to be a happy one for both Kelly and the deceased Linda with Linda's son C.J reunited with the father that he never knew. Kelly and her mom end up finally being together and spending more time with each other like they should have before the loneliness and void of being alone and unloved drove Kelly to kill herself at the beginning of the movie.