This picture opened in theaters on August 21 1980 in New York City starring Susan Saint James as Jane, Jane Curtain as Elaine and Jessica Lange as Louise. Jane and Robert waking up in the back of Jane's station wagon. The reason there sleeping in the station wagon is the Jane's kids think that Robert is there Uncle and how do you explaining sleeping with the kids uncle. Jane states to Robert that she wants to talk to him about getting married. Robert replies that he can't get married until old man Willard dies and he gets the store. Meanwhile Louise shows up at here husbands veterinarian office looking for her husband. Louise and Albert have been married for nine years and she needs Albert to write her a check for one thousand dollars for the merchandise that she bought for here antique store. Meanwhile Jane has arrived at her home with bags of clothes that she bought and takes them upstairs to the bedroom. While she starts to undress, she turns on the answering machine where she hears a message from her husband. On the machine is her husband trying to explain to her that he's leaving her. Elaine goes to the closet to find his things gone so she smashes the machine and throws her wedding ring outside. Elaine goes to the bank and finds out that her husband beat her there, by cleaning out there account selling all her jewelry and leaving Elaine with just $480.00 dollars in her Christmas fund. The next day Albert is in his office with the IRS and after going over his books, Albert is told that the IRS owes him $11.19. However, the IRS wants to know about the 36,000 dollars that he gave Louise for her antique store. Albert states the antique store is a business but the IRS states that it's a hobby so now unless Albert can prove it's a business he will owe the IRS taxes on the $36,000 plus penalties. Meanwhile Jane's ex comes to pickup the kids and she hits him up for more child support in which her ex replies that he can't. Meanwhile after having a few drinks at the local tavern Elaine gets into car to leave. She pulls out crossing lanes and then goes right through a stop sign. Sitting at that stop sign is a police officer who turns his lights on and goes after her and finally pulling her over. Elaine is talking to the officer and finds out that he's married. So Elaine starts hitting the officer with her purse and the officers tells her that if she hits him once more he'll arrest her. She states that if he does the first phone call she makes will bee to his wife. Now some thoughts of my own on this movie. I love this movie because it caught my attention through the entire picture. I give Jane Curtin 6 stars because she wasn't bad in her movie debut. I thought that Jessica Lange was even better in her role as the doctor's wife. However, I bought this movie for two reasons. The first was Susan Saint James who looked great in jeans and everything else she wore. The second reason, Sybil Danning who was Albert receptionist and was excellent at it. Because of those two reasons, I give this movie 10 weasel stars.