Claire Marrable (Geraldine Page) is shocked to learn that her late husband has left her with nothing but debts. How is she to live in the style she's grown accustomed? To solve her problem, she comes up with a fiendish plot. What if she were to hire a servant/companion with a small life savings, dupe her out of the money, and then kill her? Well, that's exactly what Claire does. She disposes of the bodies under pine trees growing in her garden. All is going well for Claire until Alice Dimmock (Ruth Gordon) shows up at her door looking for a job. Claire doesn't realize it but the nosey Alice is no ordinary employee. Can Alice discover Claire's secret before another pine tree is planted? <br /><br />What a wonderful movie! In short, What Ever Happened to Aunt Alice? is a deliciously twisted tale of greed and murder filled with plenty of suspense, real atmosphere, rock solid acting, witty writing, and some of the darkest humor put on film. It's a real winner from start to finish. And while I'm sure I could go on and on praising the film, it's the acting that sets it apart from similar movies. To call Geraldine Page's performance brilliant would be a gross understatement. The gleeful menace in her voice and on her face as she goes about psychologically torturing (and killing) those see sees as beneath her is amazing to watch. And if her presence wasn't enough, along comes Ruth Gordon. She's feisty, fun, and every bit the equal of Page in her role as the titular Aunt Alice. Watching these two spar when all the film's secrets have been revealed is one of those moments I won't soon forget. These are the screen moments that keep me searching out new movies.<br /><br />Nobody asked, but if I had to come up with one flaw, I suppose it would be the supporting cast. None of the other actors does anything to stand out. But how could they? Compared with Page and Gordon . . . well, there's really no comparison.<br /><br />Finally, from the outside some 40 years after the movie was made, I'd bet the actors had a blast making What Ever Happened to Aunt Alice? I can just imagine Page and Gordon having a good long laugh after shooting some of their scenes together. Then again, maybe it's just me. All I know is that I had a great time watching them work together. An 8/10 seems about right to me.