Freddy leaves his pregnant girlfriend behind in Philadelphia. While on the road he meets up with Albert, a young kleptomaniac delinquent. Together they travel to see Freddy's uncle in a nursing home. Freddy learns from his uncle that the father who abandoned him has been let out of prison and has a job in Oklahoma City. Freddy finds his father working as a parking lot attendant, but his father doesn't recognize him. Freddy robs him, and lets him know who he is. Freddy and Albert then head towards Reno, where Albert says his mom has jobs waiting for them at a restaurant. Along the way the two stop at a carnival; there's an altercation and Freddy is hurt. They break into a church and spend the night. A Native American priest finds them the next morning and takes them to his home. The boys sit down for a meal with the priest's family. Freddy and Albert hit the road again, getting a ride with Katherine and her dog. Freddy soon realizes that Albert stole a dream catcher that had been hanging above a baby's crib in the priest's house. He gets angry and has a fight with Albert. When the two boys calm down, they all go to a motel. Katherine gives Albert some money to buy a gift for his mother, but he goes to an arcade instead. Back at the motel, Freddy shows Katherine a postcard sent to Albert by his mother. In it she tells Albert that she doesn't want to see him, and we (the viewers) learn that Albert's story about his mother waiting for him is a lie. Meanwhile, Albert steals a watch from a store. When employees attempt to stop him, he pulls a fake pistol on them and gets away. In the morning police show up at the motel; Katherine has already left. At the police station an officer tells Freddy that Albert will be put in the custody of Children's Services, and that he'll be charged with theft and assault. Freddy continues on alone to Reno to find Albert's mother at the restaurant where she works, but is told by the owner that she no longer works there. The owner asks him where's he's going, and he says, "Philadelphia". The film ends with Freddy riding in a van with a family.<br /><br />A solid film with a good cast, especially the two leads. Throughout the film there are many beautiful exterior shots. The film also has a great soundtrack, with songs perfectly matching the moods of the scenes. Highly recommended.