For MM's first outing with "Marilyn Monroe Productions" producing this epic film, I am somewhat disappointed. But there are some moments that make the film worth watching. Expectations were probably very high and from the outside this should have been a smashing success. The star wattage alone was a no brainer. In viewing the picture we all want what is missing. A little word called "Chemistry". The movie poster shows Laurence behind Marilyn in a lusty clench pose, but that scenario is completely missing from this film. In watching it, the lust factor never really gels and it is glaring. Is it plausible that she or anybody could be sexually attracted to this loud mouthed oaf? - NO. Sir Larry over acts through the film over and over to a point of total annoyance and The political plot line just gets old fast. Despite being a reportedly rude tyrant on set,I will give him credit for directing Marilyn towards a solid gold performance. She is the very reason to watch this film. All of her moments with Larry, that include: Getting tipsy, mimicking him, averting his disgusting passes, singing to him and later seducing him are all pure comedic genius. Her subtle delivery and acting style had improved 100% since the early days of "River Of No Return" Its lovely to see her portraying a real woman who is warm, convincing, and with depth. No dumb blonde resides here. For me, Marilyns best scene was at the Coronation. She doesn't speak any dialog, just showing emotion with facial expression. It is very touching and heartflt. Its obvious that a lot of time and money was spent lighting marilyn for this film. Her mature beauty is simply stunning. The admirable Royal Dance sequence is also brilliantly choreographed and lushly staged. The sets alone are outstanding. Its very apparent that this was an expensive film to produce overall. Location, co-actors, cinema photography are all top of the line. This was a huge ambitious gamble for Warner brothers and MM productions to make this collaboration. It is a first class production. For the record, when released in 1957 the film only re-couped the cost to make and distibute it. It broke even with very little profit. Marilyn Monroe Productions would disband soon after.