It has been rightly stated in other comments on this page that "The Prince and the Showgirl" is not the best Marilyn Monroe movie ever made, especially considering such later pictures as "Some Like It Hot" and "The Misfits." It is also true that "The Prince and the Showgirl" is not Marilyn's best performance, given her outstanding acting as Sugar Kane and Roslyn Taber in the aforesaid movies. I do contend nonetheless that "The Prince and the Showgirl" is a delightful comedy in an interesting historic setting with hidden message underneath; a movie in which the supposedly empty-headed blonde looms a lot larger than her illustrious male costar/director. And I may add – though I am aware that this is a matter of taste entirely – that Marilyn was never sexier than when she played Elsie Marina. She's real eye candy.<br /><br />But one step at a time. The plot runs as follows: On the eve of World War I – at the 1912 coronation of King George V, to be precise – a British diplomat by the name of Northbrook (Richard Wattis) is charged with entertaining the pro-British ruler of the imaginary Balkan state of Carpathia, the Grand Duke Charles (Laurence Olivier). Carpathia is a fairly important regional power, which is why the British Foreign Office fears that the county might side with Germany if Charles's pro-German son Nicholas rose to power.<br /><br />Northbrook takes the Grand Duke to see a light musical comedy, and it is in the theater that Charles is introduced to the attractive American-born actress Elsie Marina (Monroe), who, as we later learn, is of German descent. Charles wishes to lure Elsie into a one-night stand, but the American showgirl's lack of refined manners collides with the high-strung aristocrat's ideas of a smooth, short-lived love affair. In a sub-plot, Nicholas conspires with the Germans against his father.<br /><br />As said earlier, the genteel humour is delightful, the Edwardian costumes are dazzling to look at, and Marilyn Monroe – overshadowing the unimaginative performance of Olivier – is simply white hot. There are a number of shots in that movie that would make great stills of Monroe, e.g. when she reads Charles's written invitation (she has her hair down and looks like a Vermeer beauty), when she enters the Carpathian embassy and admires at the gilded decorations, when she is engulfed in her marvellous reverie in Westminster Abbey etc. etc. Not only is she sexy in these moments, but there is really a sense of great (silent) acting, the emotions showing in her features. And the shots as such could almost be described as devotional pictures. Just stop the DVD for a sec at these moments and enjoy the tableaux.<br /><br />Regrettably, Olivier's rendering of the Grand Duke seems rather wooden and dated by comparison. He speaks with an inauthentic German accent, and he moves in a stiff and military way to indicate the Grand Duke's arrogance and authoritarian stance, which he exhibits by tyrannizing his son, yelling at servants, and by having opposition leaders arrested and jailed without trial. Overall, Olivier does his best to show the Grand Duke as the archetypical ugly German.<br /><br />I guess this is precisely where "The Prince and the Showgirl" goes "a little deeper" than most other plays in musical comedy, as Olivier's character once remarks about the play in which Elsie Marina appears. I don't know if Terrence Rattigan, on whose play and script the movie is based, intended this, but the allusions are quite obvious: "The Prince and the Showgirl" can be understood as a comment on McCarthyism, much like Arthur Miller's "The Crucible." Because when a powerful man in a 1957 movie has political opponents arrested without trial on charges of "un-Carpathian activity," that's a comment on the ongoing red scare in the US rather than on Imperial Germany. And to crown it all, it's the innocent American who criticizes the ugly German for the persecution of these un-American (McCarthy)/un-Carpathian (Grand Duke Charles) people, who conspire with a foreign power to overthrow the constitution. It's almost uncanny that Arthur Miller, whom Marilyn had wed just a few months before, was present when the movie was shot AND had to appear before the House Un-American Activities Committee immediately when he returned from England. Bear in mind that the Committee was originally intended to find German-American Nazi collaborators!<br /><br />There is one other historical detail I as a German find almost hilarious in an American movie based on an Englishman's screenplay: As other commentators have observed, Olivier spices up his dry performance by using German swear words which were probably outdated in the 50s already ("Kreuzdonnerwetter noch mal" etc.). Asked by Elsie Marina why he always swore in German, the Grand Duke replies: "Because the Germans have the best oaths - and the best machine guns." Isn't that the truth – the Hun simply has the best machine guns. Funny only that the German Maschinengewehr 08 was more or less a direct copy of the English Maxim gun invented by the American-born engineer Sir Hiram S. Maxim. And by the time "The Great War" starts the Brits have a way more modern machine gun than the 08 in the shape of the famous Vickers gun – as do the Yankees when their forces enter WWI (Browning M1917 machine gun.)<br /><br />In a nutshell, "The Prince and the Showgirl" is a fun movie to watch on the surface and provides highly interesting commentary on contemporary US history underneath. Marilyn Monroe sparkles, though her role doesn't challenge her in the same way as did her parts in "Some Like It Hot" and "The Misfits" – those parts really brought out her enormous artistic versatility, as did the 1952 picture "Don't Bother to Knock." The costumes, props, and decorations are splendid and contribute to a dense, decadent, somewhat fin de siècle atmosphere of this romantic comedy set in the Edwardian era. A must-see and clearly a 10, despite the shortcomings of Olivier's performance.