This is a fun low budget Sci-Fi prison flick, that's rather exciting, with a solid story, and fun performances!. All the characters are cool, and sure it may be a bit cheesy and have some bad dialog at times, but it's all good fun, plus Christopher Lambert is simply amazing in this!. It's also surprisingly violent, and I remember watching this movie on TV as a kid, and enjoying it so it was great to re visit it, and it's pretty well made and written for it's low budget, plus it's also quite imaginative, and creative too. All the characters are very likable,and the ending is also quite cool as well,plus there are some really impressive action scenes as well. Kurtwood Smith is really good as the villain, and Lambert and Loryn Locklin had pretty good chemistry together in my opinion, plus the special effects are pretty good despite the low budget it had. It had a couple of decent fight scenes, and I think this should be quite higher then 5.3 in my opinion, plus the opening is quite intense. This is a fun low budget Sci-Fi prison flick, that's rather exciting, with a solid story, and fun performances in my opinion, I highly recommend this one!. The Direction is great!. Stuart Gordon does a great! job here with very good camera work, excellent angles, adding some good atmosphere and just keeping the film at a very fast pace.<br /><br />There is lots of violence&blood. We get extremely bloody wounds,gory dog bites,bloody nose bleeds,hole blown through one's stomach,nasty broken jaw, with blood spurting,stomach explosion,a few body explosions,guy tearing out his own eyes,stabbings,hands cut badly with glass,extremely gory gunshot wounds and tons of blood!.<br /><br />The Acting is fun!. Christopher Lambert is amazing as always and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, very charismatic, as always had a wicked laugh, gives one of his finest performances, was fun to watch, and kicked that ass! (Lambert Rules!!!!!!!). Kurtwood Smith is really good as the villain, he was intimidating, and hammed it up perfectly, I loved him!. Loryn Locklin is a solid little B movie actress and did fine in her role, she had pretty good chemistry with Lambert and was likable, I dug her. Clifton Collins Jr. is good in his role I liked him. Lincoln Kilpatrick had a strong presence about him and was great as Abraham, it sucked he didn't survive. Jeffrey Combs is good as the computer geek I love this guy!. Rest of the cast are fine.<br /><br />Overall I highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5