I've always loved this version of the ancient Arabian tale, Douglas Fairbanks was at the top of his game, lithe and energetic throughout the 148 minutes. There are various copies available, some better than others overall in various states of decomposition, but I haven't seen one better than the Thames Photoplay issue. A copy I've seen (regurgitated by Elstree Hill) has a whole chapter almost burnt up and a teeth-grindingly awful score, so if you're interested it'll probably pay to be careful.<br /><br />Fairbanks spends the first 20 minutes scene-setting with plenty of stealing and acrobatics, then tries to steal from the Caliph of Bagdad but falls in love with his beautiful daughter instead. He then spends the remainder of the film as the Reformed Thief Of Bagdad, trying to win her. In this he's up against 3 rivals and they're all tasked with finding the greatest treasure to decide which one will marry her. The main role was split into two for the 1940 remake – he was certainly more animated than John Justin! Anna May Wong plays an evil traitor but confidante to the Princess, a role she reprised 10 years later in Chu-Chin-Chow the first film version of which appeared the year before this, and which provided some of the story here too. Some of the special effects still look good especially the flying carpet scenes and creating the million man army, but the rest for the main are primitive – however if you're unfortunate enough to see any of the laughable modern versions, maybe some with eye-splitting digital cartoonery too you'll realise special effects do not make a great movie. This has a great story, great sets, great atmosphere, is constantly inventive within the technological limitations and lives in the imagination long after it's finished. However if comparisons are possible between silent and sound films, I think Korda's version was something extra special and on another level altogether.<br /><br />So if you care, dig out a good non-budget issue of this for a magical night's entertainment.