If the lead actress was going to win an Oscar, it could have been for this, not Moomnstruck, because I preferred Glenn Close in Fatal Attraction much more. Anyway, this is the true story of Roy L.'Rocky' Dennis (a very convincing Golden Globe nominated Eric Stoltz), who suffered the extremely rare disorder Craniodiaphyseal Dysplasia, commonly known as Lionitis due to the disfiguring Cranial Enlargements that it causes. Obviously the story sees his journey through all the things a normal boy of his age would do, except it being with a not completely normal boy. Throughout the film, he collects cards, goes to school and achieves three graduation diplomas for his great skills (another thing that made him different), volunteers to help people in a camp, where he meets his true love Diana Adams (Laura Dern), and much more. His mother Florence 'Rusty' Dennis (Cannes Film Festival winner, and Golden Globe nominated Cher) is one of the problems in his life, she is a no nonsense mother with a drug habit and prostitution that sometimes stops him getting anywhere and can cause arguments, but he is happy when she is tender, protective and hanging out with her true love and good friend, Gar (Sam Elliott). Oh, in the film Rocky suffers many horrible head aches of some kind, and this is probably what killed him in the very sad ending. I didn't see the very ending, but I got the idea of how tragic his death was to his mother. Also starring Estelle Getty as Evelyn, Richard Dysart as Abe, Micole Mercurio as Babe, Harry Carey Jr. as Red, Dennis Burkley as Dozer, Lawrence Monoson as Ben, Ben Piazza as Mr. Simms, L. Craig King as Eric, Alexandra Powers as Lisa and Kelly Jo Minter as Lorrie. I can kind of associate with the story, I have a social problem called Asperger's Syndrome, it may cause problems in my social life and skills, but I do like the fact that in one of my schools, I became a student known by almost everyone in my final year (11), and the film story seems rather similar to mine in places, and it is a very good film. It won the Oscar for Best Makeup, it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Make Up Artist, and it was nominated the Cannes Film Festival Golden Palm award for director Peter Bogdanovich. Very good!