There are lots of these films. Generally, these "Feel good/inspirational films" try so hard that they end up making you feel sick. Often they go above and beyond the reality and overplay something so insignificant, its hard to relate to it. Mask does neither. Mask is grounded in reality. Yes, some of the facts are skewered, but it lives in the real world. It feels realistic and it feels relatable. Another thing Mask does differently is how it spreads its "Inspirational" message. Many of these films just give the message straight up, with no spice or seasoning to make it interesting. Or they might just toss it in your face at the beginning and forget it, letting it sit in your face throughout the movie, often making it more uncomfortable than inspiring. Mask uses subtly and lets the story itself unfold its message. The direction is tight and conveys this beautifully. There is a scene that always touches me- when Rocky is looking in a fun house mirror. At first we do not see what he sees, but he goes to get his mother. She looks into the mirror, and the fun house mirror shows Rocky but without his facial disorder. It's a beautiful, somewhat haunting, scene.<br /><br />The film is the true life story of Roy "Rocky" Dennis, a boy born with a disease commonly known as "Lionitis" that deforms the cranial growth. His mother, played surprisingly well by Cher, is short tempered and morally questionable, but is ultimately determined to help Rocky live as good a life as normal.<br /><br />The ultimate message of the film is not to be shallow. It doesn't matter what you look like on the outside, it's what is inside, what is behind the "mask" if you will, that counts. The movie conveys its message well, and Rocky's character does a good job of delivering that message. Rocky was intelligent, nice, funny, and caring. Sure he has his faults, but once again thats the film actually staying in the realm of reality. Rocky is a likable- if not lovable character despite his originally off putting appearance.<br /><br />Mask is something we don't see in cinemas anymore: An "inspirational" true story that doesn't force it and ultimately, succeeds in making you feel good and even tugs your heart strings a bit. So many films try to do this but fail, but we should be thankful we have Mask. One of the most beautiful and touching films ever made.