I saw this movie when i was 15. it just absolutely blew me away. from the amazing acting,to the beautiful score by bob seger,even down to the make up effects.Having seen pictures of the real rocky dennis,the make up job was absolutely dead on.<br /><br />The movie concerns rocky dennis. A boy who despite being born with a disease that has left his face horribly disfigured,is an extremely intelligent,kind,and outgoing young man. Rocky lives with his mother who is a hard living biker. Yet through her troubles she genuinely loves her son. There is also gar,a biker who treats rocky as if he were his own son.At the beginning the odds are stacked against rocky but through love and perseverance,he emerges as an inspiration to all around him.<br /><br />This film is an absolute triumph. However it is a major tear jerker. i think sometimes we need those kinds of films ,and a reminder that nothing is impossible. That no matter how high the odds are stacked one can emerge on top. I really related to his relationship with gar. i have always considered myself an outsider,but when i was 14 my step dad came into my life and took me as his son despite my flaws,much like gar did with rocky. Rocky also falls in love with a blind girl who even though she is blind,she loves rocky for who he is. the film is flawless,and the song by bob seger at the end credits is just perfect. I love this film and think everyone should see it. Also for the fact that it makes us look at ourselves,much like the elephant man did 5 years earlier. Instead of us looking at how we treat those who are different,it makes us look at ourselves in a much different way.That everyman has his burden to carry in life, regardless of if its mental,physical,or spiritual we all do. That appearance means nothing, beauty is truly in the eye of the beholder and if rocky dennis isn't a shining example of that then nothing is. Fair warning however. As wonderful as this film is the rocky dennis face could be frightening to small children. Great story with a great message. 10 out of 10