It's a film split up into five different sections, each of these sections follows a different taxi ride in a different city. We have an LA one, a New York one, a Paris one, a Rome one and a Helsinki one.<br /><br />We start off with the LA one, with Winona Ryder playing an obnoxious chain-smoking rocker (apparantly, at least she listened to rock) who somehow managed to get a job as a taxi driver and gives a ride to a casting agent. At first Ryder is an annoying, obnoxious, Juno-like character (except she swears and doesn't talk about Argento) but then we suddenly learn that she isn't all we see her to be. This section of the film elaborates on the idea that some people are who they are, and don't act any differently, but then we know this is never true because no matter who the person is, you get to know them and you see them as differently to how they act on first meeting. This should seem obvious, but a lot of people don't seem to think so, just like Ryder's character. When we discover what Ryder wants to do with her life, and about her character near the end of the segment, she really isn't the obnoxious girl she seems to be. It was a good beginning to the film, but it only got better from there. Rewind the clock forty minutes and jump on a plane down to New York...<br /><br />The New York section was ducking perfect. A serious 10/10 to this section. Armin Mueller-Stahl plays the confused taxi driver Helmut, who picks up a 'bum' and can't drive for chit. So, the 'bum' drives. It was Mueller-Stahl's acting, the characterisations and chemistry that made this segment so perfect. Helmut is truly one of my favourite characters of all-time now. At first he's just a confused foreigner who knows nothing about America, but then we discover that, even though he is, he's also a smart, happy guy who just loves being who he is. This segment put a massive smile on my face.<br /><br />The Paris segment too was a 10/10. Some brutish looking black taxi driver with a plaster on his head gets ridiculed by some rich guys in the back seat, kicks them out and then mutters to himself, "What a ducked up day." It certainly was. Even though he appears to be brutish and tough, he just seems like a normal, curious George who must take a lot of chit from people. It's four in the morning when he kicks the two guys out, and then he sees a blind woman on the side looking for a taxi. He picks her up, expecting her to not give him "any chit", but this notion instantly shatters when she acts whorish to him. She's not though, she's just feisty. He doesn't react though, he just takes it in. He questions her, and is bemused by her extreme intelligence. He went through a transformation in that journey. Before, he was negative about all his customers and found flaws in them, but now he seems to see it all so differently due to a woman who can't see anything. It was silently perfect.<br /><br />The Rome section was... crap. I entirely blame Roberto Benigni (who I loved in Life is Beautiful). His shtick just did not work in the slightest with the rest of the film. His crazy, rapid-fire improv just brought the film down a hell of a lot, and is the reason I won't give the film as a whole a 10/10, which is a shame. I have no more to say. Not good at all, and really there was nothing to it other than for Benigni to show off how great his head is.<br /><br />The Helsinki section was a 10/10, and was the absolute perfect way to end the film. A moustached taxi-driver picks up a couple of drunk guys, one of them passed out, and the other two pretty masculine and overpowering. A few things happen: They grab the taxi driver by the throat, they moan about their passed-out friend and how bad his life is, then end up in tears when the taxi driver explains how his life is far worse than that of the passed-out guys. Like the rest of the film, it really is impossible to explain it without seeing it for yourself, so all I can say is, get the film by any means and watch the hell out of it. From Taxi Driver-esquire cinematography with cameras mounted atop taxis swimming through the street-lights of the world to the most unexpected characters to come out of those we assume will be something else, it's worth watching and could still be a 10/10.