After watching "Night on Earth", it is not hard to see why Jim Jarmusch is regarded among the greatest of independent filmmakers. Brilliance pours from every scene of this movie. As you probably know, the film takes place in five taxi cabs in five different cities on the same night. In a film with a such format, it is tempting to comment on "which segment is superior" but this would be missing the point entirely because "Night on Earth" is greater than the sum of its five parts, although it is true that the five segments can stand easily on their own. The L.A. segment portrays two very different women, for whom expectations from life differ completely and yet they are both content with who they are and they can somehow connect at some level. The N.Y. segment is hilarious, especially the part played by Rosie Perez. The trio in the taxi can only come together in New York, I guess. The Paris segment works so perfectly on so many different levels. It mainly raises questions about prejudices, not just about where people come from but simply about regarding others who are not like us. At the end, it leaves you asking "who is more blind?". The infamous segment in Rome is comedy at its purest and Roberto Benigni in top form. I guess it will be the most bizarre and entertaining confession I will have ever heard of. The Helsinki segment seems to end the film on a sad note but in my opinion, it actually says more: Although we sympathize with the two "talking" passengers since they sympathize with the taxi driver, it is again these two who are inconsiderate to their friend. And as for the driver, although he is deeply sad and wounded, this sadness is a little self-centered and he has no pity to those whom he can actually help. As a whole, in addition to being a very good comedy to make you laugh, this film makes you contemplate about life, people, space and time. It opens in L.A. just about when it is getting dark and ends in Helsinki at dawn. While you actually know that these stories are taking place at the same time, it feels as if you have witnessed a night go by on Earth and have made a unique journey.