Jim Jarmusch is a filmmaker that you can always rely on to deliver something offbeat and unlike most other films. My only taste of him before seeing this film was the slightly later 'Dead Man', and I found that to be a very worthwhile experience and one that set me up nicely for Night on Earth. Night on Earth isn't quite as trippy as Jarmusch's later film; but it still oozes that odd sense of cool and while you're watching it you're constantly reminded that what you are seeing isn't just any film. This film is split into five sections, all of which tell a story about a taxi in different parts of the world. Part of the reason why this film is so odd is that all of the stories take place at the same time, which creates a very strange feeling while you're watching it. One problem with films that work in this way is that there's always a weak link in the stories; but here there isn't. All of the stories are of high quality, and all are brilliant in different ways. Of course, everyone will have a favourite and mine has got to be the blackly comic one that takes place in Rome! <br /><br />An excellent ensemble cast, mostly made up of unknowns, helps night on Earth immensely. In fact, it's ironic because the only cast member that doesn't pull her weight is the only one that isn't unknown - Winona Ryder. I'm something of a fan of Ryder; but seeing her in this movie is an awful experience. How anyone could think that she could be cast as a taxi driver, complete with cocky swagger and cigarette in mouth, and get away with it is ludicrous. However, the rest of the cast is really good and all bring realism to their roles. Roberto Benigni is typically over the top, but his performance is very fun and he is an actor that has a great ability to draw you into his performance by the way he speaks. This was capitalised on brilliantly in the masterpiece 'Life is Beautiful', and it's shown here too. The stories in the film don't appear to have an absolute defining point (with the exception of the story in Paris); but it doesn't matter as the musings about life and such are always interesting and the obscure idea of following people in taxis is always amusing. On the whole - a very worthwhile film experience!