I cannot improve on or add much to the very fine reviews already on this thred. One aspect of the film I found very interesting and perhaps crucial to its impact: did Colonel (ex-general) Mitchell accomplish what he set out to do? He persisted in martyring himself to bring to light the lack of support for flyers and to promote the air "force" as a new and integrated branch of military defense. Clearly the defense lawyer was brilliantly pursuing a course that forced the tribunal to cut their losses and restore Billy's rank, if he'd recant part or all of his accusations. He had an out. But, like Billy Budd, he chose the victim path, and, while maintaining his love and devotion to the army, made himself a scapegoat. At one point it did appear that Rod Steiger's lawyer (a wonderful bit of acting) had him on the ropes about setting himself (Billy) up a better than and morally superior to his peers and his superiors--even the army itself. Last-minute heroism ensued: Billy, sick in body and spirit **spoiler** persisted in his suit with a fairly standard speech (I though acted appropriately with weakened voice and manner because the man was sick) about doing the right thing for the greatest number, and that his country ranked even higher thn himself and all the generals present. He couldn't NOT pursue his cause and be a good man and soldier. I was satisfied by his argument; but I did not feel that the issue was resolved. He did break ranks; he did call in the press; he did undermine his fellow officers to some degree. I thought it weakened his argument and the film (unless I'm off base) to bring in all the material about jet aircraft--not that it might not have been true, and not that the prosecutor didn't make logical and effective use of these "fantasies"==but that it seemed sort of overweighted to make Billy appear a misunderstood prophet, rather than just a good experienced soldier and flyer. A wonderful film, and I thought a strong performance by Cooper (almost especially when he appeared weak and beaten.) A courtroom drama with brains and brawn. Seven-plus from jaime.