Warning: may contain some spoilers.<br /><br />I don't think I have ever gone to a chop socki movie and expected to see the next Titanic or the next American Beauty. I don't want to see a multi layered, subtle film that has lots of plot twists and turns and characters that surprise me. What I do want to see is a bunch of guys beating the snot out each other and doing things that they should not be able to do. I love all the greats in regards to this type of film. From guys like Chuck Norris, Bruce Lee, Steven Seagal, some JCVD, Jeff Speakman ( anyone ever see The Perfect Weapon? ), Jackie Chan and of course Jet Li. I have seen every film of Jet's released in North America and every film he amazes me with what he can do. I don't really see the difference between a film like Crouching Tiger and Kiss of the Dragon. They are both fun, entertaining films to watch but they are not by any means worthy of Oscar consideration. but then again, you are talking about a bunch of fossils who think Shakespeare In Love is better than Saving Private Ryan. <br /><br />KOD is nothing but a pure adrenaline rush. Bridget Fonda is along for the ride and so is the guy from Bad Boys and The Patriot (Tcheky Karyo), but all you really need is Jet Li and you have yourself a great action film. But perhaps what separates this film from some of the other martial arts films if that in most fight movies, the action sequences are good, really good, but KOD takes some of the fights a step further. I was amazed at some of the choreography displayed. Not just by Jet but by some of his opponents. It is thrilling to see a small man fight two bigger men and watch them fall. That is exactly what happens when Jet meets two massive blond twins schooled in martial arts. As they say, the bigger they are, the harder they fall. And that is true in this case, but not before Jet takes a good beating.<br /><br />The plot, well, who really cares, but Jet Li gets mixed up in some French plot to smuggle heroine and he has to stop the perpetrators. As I said, the plot is really not the core of the film, even though it was written by Luc Besson. All you really need to know is that if you enjoy this kind of action, then this is one film that you can't pass up. It will please even the most skeptical critics.<br /><br />One particularly amusing scene is when Jet walks into a police station to go after the bad guys. He opens one door to try to escape and buy himself some time and it is there that he finds a room full of black belts practising their karate. Jet takes his jacket off and invites all of them to bring it on. This reminded me of a funny scene in Wayne's World when Wayne and Garth open a door and behind it there is a bunch of spies doing a bunch of spy things like climbing walls and fighting. They close the door and say something to the effect of " I always wanted to see that." Well in this film, it isn't so much a joke as it is a reality. It is one of the most impressive fight sequences I have ever seen in any film, with all due respect to Bruce Lee.<br /><br />KOD is not a Martin Scorsese film, nor is it a film by Coppola or Truffaut or Fellinni. It is a film by Chris Nahon that stars Jet Li. I couldn't tell you what Nahon has done before this and to be honest I really don't care all that much. If he continues to make films like this, with a flair for the ridiculous and an eye for action, then I think he will be around for a while. But what I can tell you is that Li is the best at what he does. And this is one kick-ass-action film. There is not much to dislike about it, unless you don't like violence and then I would recommend you stay away. But if action and chop socki and deceit and betrayal is what you crave, then go see KOD.<br /><br />8.5 out of 10-- Some excellent action and fighting scenes make this one a great summer flick.