i am an avid fan of this show, and have watched every series. when it first started out in 2000, it was intended to last for one series and be a social experiment. the first two series were this. from then on in, channel 4 realised that they are better off marketing this as entertainment, voyeuristic and easy to watch TV. they basically shove 10 people into a house and see what happens. as the show has progressed, more and more people are being put in, and the show is lasting longer. now on its 9 series, the show is starting to lose its shine. i think everyone thinks it is repetitive, and they have seen it all before.<br /><br />despite this, i still think the show is great. this series is especially diverse. they have a blind man and an albino, a Buddhist and a Muslim and two immigrants, and a strict catholic. you really either love this series or hate it. a lot of people think it is boring to just watch people in a house, but big brother intrude, and throw some twists in to make it a bit more exciting. this is one of the reasons it has swayed from its original concept, because there are so many new people and twists put in throughout the series.<br /><br />the first series was great, a good bunch of people with one evil fella, nick bate-men, who showed the viewing public how bad and desperate some people are for fame. he said he killed his wife by accident when she was waiting outside. the show pushes people to their mental limits, and shows how strong or weak some people are.<br /><br />in the past they have put some people they shouldn't have put in, such as Shabaz, who was bullied and even threatened suicide. they put in lea, who was a porn star and had body-dismorphia. they put in Nikki, who had suffered from an eating disorder. Sam, a pre-op transsexual, was paranoid, Pete who had Tourette's, and Mikey who is blind. the shows morals and integrity have therefore been called into question 'what will they do for ratings?' is the question that people ask. some people believe they are irresponsible. big brother defends themselves by saying every person who enters undergoes a vigorous physcological analysis.<br /><br />this show is the but of controversy, never being away from the papers. u really have to treat the show for what it is, because it certainly isn't intellectual viewing anymore, this was the start of reality TV, and has now developed a cult following who will not stop watching, i personally recommend it. i suggest you try it, and if you don't like it then fine, but don't prejudge it when you haven't seen it