Apparently it takes no less than FOUR different people to script a piece of junk that looks exactly like the "Alien", only a lot less claustrophobic and suspenseful. Four people and a bunch of washed up actors to make a US sequel that has absolutely nothing in common with the British cult classic from 1983, but presumably just wanted to cash in on the awesome title. The original "Xtro" is a movie you either love or hate. I happen to love it, because it was totally unique Sci-Fi fodder that blended surreal elements with kitschy comedy, gratuitous nudity and gruesome make-up effects. This sequel has … nothing! Even the additional title is boring. "The Second Encounter"? Well duh, it's the second movie after the first movie. "Xtro II" is basically just a re-telling of Ridley Scott's legendary "Alien", only set in an underground research facility instead of a spaceship. Deep underneath us, unaware tax-payers, Doctors Alex Summerfield and Julie Casserly run a secret laboratory where they teleport three people to an alternate dimension. Only one of them returns, however, and she's carrying a hideous monster that explodes through her chest "Alien"-style. The whole facility becomes hermetically sealed off and inescapable, and it's up to an ex-scientist (Jan-Michael Vincent) and a team of macho soldiers (like in James Cameron's sequel "Aliens") to survive this ordeal. This film is completely unoriginal, derivative, uninspired, boring and forgettable. It's literally everything you expect it to be, with exaggeratedly big guns and muscled imbeciles climbing up elevator shafts etc… It seems as if Jan-Michael Vincent and Paul Koslo, both reasonably acclaimed B-movie veterans, are competing for who can deliver the most uninterested and cocky performance, whereas the rest of the cast tries real hard to do good but don't have the talent. Tara Buckman, for example, must have watched and learned a lot from Linda Hamilton in "The Terminator". The special effects are weak, actually, even though this movie falsely raises the impression of being gory and trashy. The gory bits are always over in the blink of an eye, the lighting is poor and – if you watch it in slow motion – the make up looks quite amateurish.