Hey there science fiction fans. Familiar with the concept of dual tangent fields? What about neutrino heavy proton beams? Interdimensional bi-location orbs? I'm guessing your answer will be no, unless you happen to have seen this film many times, because unfortunately this is the kind of daft drivel the film throws around to explain its plot set up of interdimensional travel. Its doubly unnecessary since anyone watching this kind of film isn't likely to have a clue what its on about and the presumed target audience of undemanding science fiction horror fans aren't likely to require such an explanation anyway. Plus, the film messes around and takes too long to get down to business. Granted, the wait isn't that long time-wise, but when the film has an ugly set and little going for it in terms of acting or writing one can't help but want a rapid pace. Things do eventually start to happen and its still no great shakes at all, with uninspired action, lamely edited deaths and a lack of gore. In terms of bloodshed the only notable moment is a surprisingly neat chest bursting that rates as one of the highlights of the experience. Also, the monster is kinda cool, a looming man in dark and clawed suit creation which looks pretty solid in an Alien rip off vein. Actingwise things are about bearable, but no great shakes in general. Jan Michel-Vincent is hardly convincing, yet watchable as heroic yet maligned scientist Shepherd, Julie Cassidy cuts a pretty figure and is fairly lively as his ex, working on a new project and Paul Koslo has a certain talent as her a-hole superior. Elsewhere Jano Frandsen is fairly representative of the talent free performances of the military types going after the creature and Nicholas Lea (the villainous Alex Krycek from The X Files) has an early and charmless appearance as a young soldier. Altogether this is pretty unimpressive stuff. I've now seen it a couple of times, once when I was a lot younger (and it didn't impress me then) and again more recently and though I don't regret watching it, its hardly a good film. However, it does carry a certain dim witted nostalgic charm and its always good to see a creature feature with old school, non cgi effects. The film moves along fairly smartly once it gets to business and though it only briefly registers as exciting, it has its fun passages. Watchable if you really like these kind of films, as I do, but otherwise probably one to steer clear of.