They say Bortko has already established himself as a talented re-teller of greatest masterpieces. He has "Idiot" and "Sobachye Serdtse" to his credit, which have received positive critique of the audiences, their statuses notwithstanding. "Master i Margarita", however, is so far the highlight of his directing career. Yes, it is a TV version and one usually does not expect much from TV serials. But tell me - how is one supposed to fit in a masterpiece into two-three hours of screen time? How can one do this when literally every page of the book contains some new information, an unexpected development, an interesting dialog, or a crazy combination of all three? I can only commend Bortko for doing such a great job of bringing to screen the all time classic of Russian literature (and thank him for not doing the same that some of the Western countries do to their own classics).<br /><br />Now, on to the version itself. The cast was superb and I shall not get tired of stating this. Galibin as Master and Kovalchuk as Margarita match their characters so perfectly it is uncanny even. Galibin truly brings out his talent in this role - the role that is not a very playable one as the character does not go through much action or much visible change. The play here is deeper and had the actor been less talented, the Master would have turned out apathetic and insipid. But that does not happen here and we have a Master we see broken. And we feel his pain, just as well as we feel Margarita's pain and overwhelming desire to do anything to get her life back to happiness it once contained. <br /><br />Woland. If you expect him to be a stylized and sleek version of evil as some of the movies aestheticizing violence show their villains - you will be disappointed. Basilashvili's Woland is monumental and without a shed of light in him. He is not an entertainer, he does not make lighthearted jokes or give out histrionic retorts. He does not lick his lips or give dirty looks as most of villains are stereotyped to do. Woland in this version is the Master of the novel and the planet. He is slightly tired of people's silliness but behind his seeming exhaustion immense power is hidden. Well, what did you expect - he's the Satan himself. Woland's companions match him perfectly as well. Koroviev is dream come true in Abdulov's interpretation, whereas Azazello shows how demons can try to be nice and come out rather fatherly at that. Unfortunately, the naughtiest of the clique, Begemot, is the only weakness of the TV version. He is voiced by one of the talented actors of the new generation of Russian acting school, but the puppet and the cat costume they use for Begemot most of the time seriously leaves much to be desired.<br /><br />Overall, this film deserves a strong 8, and had it had a good animated Begemot, I would have given it 9 as well. The only thing that does not allow me to give it a full 10 is the CGI failure of the film. Where the actors play their roles superbly, the special effects threatened to ruin the impression from the film. Thankfully, the actor performances did not allow for getting distracted with the CGI too much. That, already, does say a bit about the level of acting in the film, no?