A few years ago I saw a documentary on James Cagney and they showed a film clip that had me intrigued - he danced over to his girl, executed a little shuffle and waltzed the girl off to the turnstile. I always wanted to see that movie and now I have. It was "Other Men's Women" and he wasn't the star, or even the co-star. Filling those roles were Grant Withers and Regis Toomey but, to me, it was a very memorable moment. It was Cagney's 3rd film and also down in the cast was Joan Blondell - they had both been plucked from the Broadway play "Penny Arcade" and given roles in the film version "Sinner's Holiday" (coincidentally, Grant Withers was also the star in the film version). In 1930 there was no reason to think that Withers wouldn't go from strength to strength but in just a couple of years he was reduced to leads in poverty rowers. He then forged a career playing character parts until the 1950s.<br /><br />In "Other Men's Women" Withers displays an abrasive but likable personality as Bill, a train driver who is a "love 'em and leave 'em" charmer. He cannot be persuaded by his partner Jack (Regis Toomey) to give up one of his nights with Marie (Joan Blondell) "a lovable klutz" and spend an evening at his home. Ed (James Cagney) can, though, by inviting him to the fights. Cagney makes a great entrance by walking into view via the train tops!!! When Bill is thrown out of his lodgings for being drunk, Jack takes him home, where he is instantly smitten with Lily (the beautiful Mary Astor), Jack's wife. During the months he stays there, he and Lily fall in love (to the strains of "The Kiss Waltz". A bit of cross promotion as Grant Withers had introduced that song in another film "Dancing Sweeties".)<br /><br />To keep Jack from guessing, Bill goes off - but Jack suspects and they have a fight in the engine cabin. They miss a stop, engines collide and a lad is hurt. Jack has been knocked out but Bill takes the blame, confessing he was sleeping off a hangover and Jack had to do the work for both of them. Bill is docked 6 weeks pay and goes on a serious bender, aided by Marie, although Ed tries to put him wise. When he finally gets up the courage to see Jack, it is to find that he is now blind.<br /><br />This is a super movie that, after a light hearted start, develops into a highly dramatic film. The very last scene where Bill, now sure of Lily's love runs joyously over the train carriages is a nice touch. Walter Long, who played villainous roles in films like "The Birth of a Nation" and early sound comedies like "Pardon Us" plays Roundhouse Bixby.<br /><br />Highly Recommended.