This is a brilliant absolutely brilliant Van Damme film, with an amazing performances and a very emotional ending!. This Is one of Van Damme's absolute best, and in my top 5, plus this may be Van Damme's breakout performance as an actor in my opinion (although he is always amazing). I really liked how Van Damme tried to do something different here, and in my opinion it worked perfectly, and Van Damme and Arquette have amazing chemistry together, plus it was awesome to see how well Van Damme bonded with the kids!. I can't believe critics called this embarrassing, and if you think Van Damme can't act, you have to watch this movie, plus Joss Ackland is pretty menacing as the main villain!. The character development is outstanding, and the kids are surprisingly very likable, plus the movie has a couple of good scraps!. This is a brilliant absolutely brilliant Van Damme film, with amazing performances and a very emotional ending. The Direction is fantastic!. Robert Harmon does a fantastic job here, with fantastic camera work, good angles, creating some nice atmosphere, and keeping the film at an extremely engrossing and very fast pace!. There is a tiny bit of blood. We get a couple a very bloody gunshot wounds, and minor wounds. The Acting is AMAZING! (in my opinion). Jean Claude Van Damme is AMAZING as always, and is AMAZING here, he is extremely convincing, extremely likable, kicks that ass, had amazing chemistry with the kids and Rosanna Arquette,and gave one of the best performance in his career! (Van Damme Is quite simply the Man!)(my favorite actor). Rosanna Arquette is wonderful here, she is beautiful, had amazing chemistry with Van Damme, was very likable, and like VD's character i was rooting for her all the way!. Kieran Culkin is actually very good as the kid, and was very likable, and was actually quite funny, go figure!.Ted Levine is very good as one of the main villains, and was very menacing. Joss Ackland is also excellent as one of the main villains, didn't have much screen time though. Tiffany Taubman is great as the daughter and was adorable. Edward Blatchford is good as the weasel sheriff. Overall this quite simply a must see period!, don't waste any more time!. ***** out of 5