*POSSIBLE SPOILERS* People often use the term "ripoff" quite liberally when describing a movie. In this case however, it cannot be overstated enough. From the plot of an elite military unit sent into a jungle under the guise of locating a similarly elite team that lost contact, right down to the stoic Native American soldier copy of Predator's Billy, it can only be assumed the creators of this monstrosity were hoping the viewers had never seen "Predator." Of course along for the ride on this trip is a female version of Dillon who knows more than she lets on. And what does all this add up to? Discovering horribly disfigured corpses of the lost team upon arrival, an alien running through the jungle keeping tabs on the team, members being picked off one by one and even killing one man off then hoisting him high up in a tree. Of course the alien can shoot an oh-so-similar "laser cannon."<br /><br />So what exactly is different? There is of course no Arnold. There is also the supposition that the alien presence is known, and has been known, for years. There is even a modern military bunker in the middle of a jungle with a placard above the door identifying who runs it and what it's for. Beyond that is the typical B-movie stuff: bad acting, cheesy special effects (the "alien" is a man in body armor and a mask) and laughable dialog. One team member even carries a PDA that apparently gets great reception in the depths of a the jungle, but never uses it to contact the outside world for help or info. Of course then there is the universal theme of tossing in a nuclear bomb that needs to be disarmed. The really great twist is that in order to stop the timer, rather than entering a code, the team must answer a series of trivia questions.<br /><br />Though there is no reason to condemn a film strictly for being a B-movie, it is the shameless copying of story line down to minute detail which sets this one apart from other's like it. The only mystery to this film is how to find a way to rate it without anything lower than a 1. If anyone wants to have a good time watching this film, it should be by trying to match up the number of times "Predator" is plagiarized.