Peppermint Patty and Marcie are getting together to decorate Easter eggs. Patty has the paints ready while Marcie fries the eggs! Well, there goes that day. Snoopy's friend Woodstock, meanwhile, gets rained out of his nest. So Snoopy accompanies Charlie Brown, Linus and Sally to Discount Mart to buy a new house for Woodstock. Sally needed some new shoes and Linus was telling his friends about the Easter Beagle, who distributes Easter eggs to children on Easter morning. Sally reluctantly believes him. Peppermint Patty and Marcie arrive then to buy some more eggs. Everybody gets what they wanted. Marcie tries toasting the eggs and ends up cooking them; At first Woodstock can't fit in his new house, but soon he makes himself right at home! Furniture, major appliances, the works. But when Snoopy decides to invite himself over, he really brings down the house! He is sent back to Discount Mart to buy a new one. Patty and Marcie go to buy some more eggs. This time Marcie is instructed to BOIL the eggs, so she cracks the shells and dumps the yolks into the water, which enrages Patty.<br /><br />Lucy plants her Easter eggs around the yard with intent to find them again the next day. Little did she know that Snoopy was gathering all the eggs behind her; Easter morning, Sally is furious at Linus when the Easter Beagle does not show; Peppermint Patty was distraught over the wasted efforts with the eggs; Charlie Brown is distraught over the whole holiday. But suddenly, who should come prancing along but the Easter Beagle himself: Snoopy! He gives eggs to Linus, Sally, Lucy, Marcie, Patty, Woodstock, but ran out when he got to Charlie Brown. Marcie scarfs down her entire egg, shell and all, leaving Patty very frustrated.<br /><br />It's The Easter Beagle, Charlie Brown is another classic Peanuts TV special! It goes up there with A Charlie Brown Christmas (1965), It's The Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown (1966), which was referenced here. Back then, Linus was all set to greet the Great Pumpkin in the middle of a pumpkin patch on Halloween night. Sally waited. The Great Pumpkin didn't show. Predictable results ensue. Then there's A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving from 1973. IN this Easter special, Charlie Brown didn't have much involvement. It mostly revolved around Snoopy and Woodstock and the bird house, Peppermint Patty and Marcie tending to their Easter eggs and Linus and Sally discussing the Easter Beagle. But anyway, this Easter I recommend you check out It's the Easter Beagle, Charlie Brown! Great fun for children of all ages! Be on the look out for the Easter Beagle this Sunday, kids! But let's not forget what the holiday of Easter is really about: Our Lord and Savior. <br /><br />-