Starting off, let me tell you that I've never seen any of the previous Flash series before, so that might explain my openness. Even so, I think that Flash Gordon is a decent TV series, not something to win major awards, but something to relax and unwind to on a Friday night. The plot follows Steven "Flash" Gordon (Eric Johnson) who along with his former girlfriend Dale (Gina Holden), eccentric scientist Hans Zarkov (Jody Racicot), and alien bounty hunter Baylin (Karen Cliché) travels between Earth and the alien world of Mongo with the help of dimensional rifts. While trying to find his long-lost father, he must foil the various plots of the evil dictator Ming (John Ralston) and is occasionally helped as well as hindered by Ming's haughty daughter, Aura (Anna van Hooft).<br /><br />Eric Johnson takes most of the bizarre sights and activities that he sees with an "oooookaaay..." type of air which adds a humorous air to situations. Jody Racicot also does well as the extremely nervous Hans Zarkov (or "that strange fidgety little man", as Baylin calls him). Karen Cliché is easily one of the most enjoyable cast members, delivering humor with her confusion or lack of knowledge about human customs or lifestyles, however also is a tough woman with no problem punching someone in the face. Gina Holden is so-so, but she is not my favorite by far. While her connections to the media are used to introduce Mongo invaders to Flash and Co in the episodes, she herself unfortunately shares little chemistry with either Flash or her fiancé, Joe. Anna van Hooft is brilliant as Ming's stuck-up teenage daughter, disgusted with her father's actions yet caring enough not to wish for his own death (or the death of others). John Ralston portrays Ming the "Benevolent Father" as a more modern dictator, using the planet's limited water supply to control the population and insisting all the while that he loves the people.<br /><br />The series has had a somewhat rocky, though adequate, start. By the episode Sorrow, the show has definitely started to introduce deeper subplots and better character development, paving the way for a better future.