In general, life can be a most trying proposition even in the best of times; and simply negotiating the daily grind can be exasperating for even the most resilient among us. And that's why it's so refreshing to find respite from the drama of day-to-day living-- a safe haven, if you will-- even if it's only for a couple of hours or so at the movies, which is just what you get with the light-hearted comedy, `Crocodile Dundee In Los Angeles,' directed by Simon Wincer. In this third installment of the `Dundee' series, once again starring Paul Hogan as the famed and fearless crocodile hunter, Mick Dundee, we find Mick, his significant other, Sue Charleton (Linda Kozlowski) and their fourth-grade son, Mikey (Serge Cockburn) living in a small hamlet (population 20) in Australia on the cusp of the Outback. When the editor of Sue's father's West Coast office of his newspaper in America dies suddenly, Mr. Charleton asks his journalist daughter to fill in for a few weeks until he can find a permanent replacement. So it's off to Los Angeles for Mick, Sue and Mikey, where Sue quickly finds herself involved with the investigation of a shady new movie studio, while Mick gets work there as an extra on their latest production. There's also plenty of time for Mick and Mikey to explore the terrain of the big city, which is new territory for Mikey, but for Mick-- already a veteran of a trip to New York-- it becomes just one g'day after another, mate. Which is really what this film is all about. And it works.<br /><br />	It's light fare from the outset, and Wincer does a good job of keeping it all on track and presenting the material in just the right way. It's casual fun and a lot of laughs, and though there's a lot of sight-gags and physical humor it's never overblown or slapstick, which keeps the rhythm of the film intact and makes the humor flow quite naturally. In short, Wincer has the formula down for what works here, and he never attempts to make this film anything other than what it is, which makes it easy for the audience to just go with it and enjoy the proceedings.<br /><br />	Hogan has a charismatic screen presence, and as Mick he's so laid back that you feel relaxed just watching him. He makes his character real, and the way he under-reacts to just about any given situation makes the story refreshingly and readily accessible. Watching this movie is kind of like spending some time with an old friend; it's a fun and pleasant experience, and makes you glad you got together after all these years. Like the film itself, Hogan never attempts to make Mick anything other than what he is, which is a guy who happens to hunt crocodiles for a living. And that's an aspect he could easily have tried to play upon, approaching it from the perspective that this is a rather `odd' occupation compared to the average guy on the street. But he doesn't take that route, opting instead to make Mick just another average guy on the street, like the clerk at the store or the mailman. And it lends credibility to the character, as well as the story, inasmuch as the plot is fairly insignificant in light of the fact that this movie is really about the characters and the way they interact, as opposed to what the storyline is. It's good work by Hogan, who has created a character who is so likable and real, while Hogan the actor, in retrospect, is destined to be under appreciated for it. It's one of those instances in which it's too hard to separate the actor from the character, which in essence is a tribute to the quality of Hogan's performance.<br /><br />	After being absent from the big screen for some six years, it's good to see Linda Kozlowski back reprising her role of Sue Charlton. As an actor, she is talented, has an extremely natural screen presence and is absolutely gorgeous; it's a shame she hasn't made more than a half dozen movies or so since `Dundee II' in 1988. Her role here is fairly straightforward, but she plays it so well, and with such facility, that it's the kind of performance that is easily and too often overlooked. And she plays well opposite Hogan (but then, she should; they're married in real life). She's a gifted actor, and hopefully we'll see much more of her in the near future; her continued presence would be a real asset to the cinematic community.<br /><br />	Serge Cockburn, meanwhile, does a good turn as Mikey; he's a likable youngster with a natural talent that was a definite asset to this film. Also helping to sell the movie is Alec Wilson, as Jacko, Mick's friend from Australia who follows him to L.A. to join in the fray, and who adds some laughs along the way.<br /><br />	The supporting cast includes Jere Burns (Rothman), Jonathan Banks (Milos), Aida Turturro (Jean), Paul Rodriguez (Diego), Kaitlin Hopkins (Miss Mathis), Gerry Skilton (Nugget) and Steve Rackman (Donk). An entertaining, uplifting comedy, `Crocodile Dundee In Los Angeles' is well crafted and delivered, and will make you feel good and put a smile on your face. There won't be any Oscars here, but it doesn't matter; this is a film that makes life a little brighter-- for awhile anyway-- and that's not such a bad deal in the grand scheme of things. It's the magic of the movies. I rate this one 7/10.