I would say that there were spoilers ahead, but you couldn't spoil this film, and I think it's better that you're forewarned...<br /><br />'Starring' Sam Elliott (The Big Lebowski's Western dude), it features the usual array of MST-able characters. There is the crippled patriarch with a tendency to hold impromptu parties on the lawn, while listening to 78s of marching bands. There is his 'ward' of somewhat ambivalent sexuality. Sam Elliott himself must have been instructed to stand side-on to the sun wherever possible so that his batch would stand gnomon-like and tell the time. There is the alcoholic 'wayward son' with a penchant for fast vehicles, and some badly-explained backstory concerning Sam's character. Did I mention that Sam's character is an ecological researcher with a camera but no note-pad? There is the highly-sexed 'daughter', and the traditional black servant family. Did I also forget to mention that this is set on an island in the middle of the Bayou in the Southern US?<br /><br />Anyhow, amidst this group of alternately unlikable and unbelievable characters, a plague of frogs arrives. They hop over some cake, but are no more than a minor irritation. Minor, perhaps, but it is enough to stir our crippled patriarch to employ someone to poison the bayou in the hopes of killing them off. Our stoic 'hero', who spends far too long sans shirt, disapproves. As does the local reptile population, who begin to pick off the island's inhabitants one-by-one in pretty unlikely ways. Our hapless louche 'personal assistant', for example, wanders into a greenhouse. Lizards lock the door, before smashing two bottles of brightly-coloured chemicals on the floor. Unsurprisingly, these mix to produce an almost instantly fatal toxic smoke, from which the only feasible escape would have been for our victim to feebly tear his way through the polyurethane walls. But he didn't think of this, so he died.<br /><br />Oddly, for a film called 'Frogs', that features so much stock footage of frogs, the frogs don't actually do any killing. I think it's meant to be implied that they are somehow co-ordinating their scaly cohorts, but it's not really clear. I don't see how they could get their message through to the turtle who chases down (yes, the world's least exciting chase scene) one of the victims. And speaking of message, the whole 'Nature fights back' message is risible. Anyway, the frogs look like they might be killing towards the end where two of them leap on the patriarch after he falls out of his wheelchair. He dies, but I can't see how two frogs leaping on his back kill him. They're not big frogs. They weren't holding knives. And anyway, the 'invasion' is just a bunch of frogs. Keep your doors and ground-floor windows closed, they'll go away when they need to spawn.<br /><br />Halliwell's film guide gave this a star - the same rating it gave Terry Gilliam's 'Brazil'. Halliwell was dead wrong.