I remember seeing 'Frogs' on some horror channel when I was about seven but I switched over after about ten minutes because it was so boring. Now that I'm much older, I've watched it all the way through and it's not as bad as I thought it was! First off, we have Sam Elliot as a nature photographer who's scouting around Ray Milland's island seeing a lot of dumped waste and rubbish everywhere. Milland's island itself is host to a large family who only care about their money it seems. But the frogs nearby are getting sick and tired of the pollution from the family and start getting their revenge. There are so many shots in the film of frogs just watching and croaking. It's almost as if they are telling every other animal on the island to kill any human they see and that's what happens! Once the first death begins, the deaths just keep on going until the end of the movie. We have tarantulas, lizards, almost every snake in existence, leeches, alligators, a snapping turtle, crabs, even birds and butterflies contribute a little bit. All of them killing everyone in their path, even the frogs get their own back on Milland at the end. It's not so much scary, but more squeamish and creepy, especially the bit with the tarantulas. It makes me shiver just thinking about it! But 'Frogs' does have its bad points too. Milland's character is a bit too unbelievable, after all of his family's deaths he still wants to celebrate his birthday. The first twenty minutes as I said before are devoid of anything remotely interesting.<br /><br />A snapping turtle killing a human also seems pretty silly to me, although I found out afterwards that snapping turtles actually ARE perfectly capable of killing someone. When we see birds attack someone, it is unclear whether the people were killed or just ran away, but I assume that we are meant to think them dead as they dropped their bags and stuff. Also half the animals in this movie aren't probably even native to the area where it is filmed.<br /><br />Despite its bad points, I really liked this film and it still delivers shocks albeit in small doses.