One thing about these 'newer' Poirots is that we must expect changes to the source material. Quite often I don't mind the changes if they make sense or add something to the story or if the change is accompanied by some particularly affecting performance. Unfortunately none of these things apply to the changes made to 'Taken At The Flood'. I have to confess that this was never one of my favourite Christie novels. I always found most of the characters fairly unpleasant and here the film manages to make them even more so! It's quite a slow moving story and the film does nothing to hurry it along. A very dark tone is adopted which is appropriate enough I suppose but so many of our misfit characters tip over into caricature and (unlike the vast majority of these adaptations) there are few performances to savour. Elizabeth Spriggs is fun, 'Rosaleen' is sympathetically done but the others are either creatures from pantomime (Kathy, Lionel and especially David who just needs a moustache to twirl) or a Noel Coward play (Jeremy, Frances and Lynn).<br /><br />Once again those responsible for adapting this particular Christie have felt the need to cram the final denouement with as many extra revelations as they possibly can - each Cloade must have a nasty secret to be uncovered by Poirot, most of which must surely be stabs in the dark! As Rosaleen is saved in this version, the scriptwriters obviously felt that the other deaths in this tale are a little bland and so introduced the dynamite plot to set Poirot's moustaches quivering in righteous anger. I agree of course with all other reviewers who point out that making the deaths of Gordon Cloade and his household domestic murder instead of 'accident' shows a complete lack of understanding of what the book is actually about. This is one of Christie's titles which was carefully thought out and contains all the clues one needs - we are dealing first and foremost with an adventurer and opportunist! I appreciate that as this series seems firmly fixed in the thirties, a war bombing is no longer sensible but the original explanation of the gas explosion worked just as well - why make it murder? We must remember however that the film-makers are aiming to 'make the stories more relevant and accessible to a modern audience' and I suppose that that must explain everything?!? <br /><br />Easily the worst of the season.