I was once only able to see Poirot if PBS's "Mystery" broadcast a series and they haven't for quite a while, several years in fact so I mistakenly thought that the Poirot series had ceased production about 10 years ago. I was very happy to discover how wrong I was! I thought the production values and the acting in this one have far surpassed what I had remembered and I think I ought to say that I was already quite fond of Poirot a decade or more ago. Nevertheless, I would have liked to see some even handedness in how the villainy was dispersed. Apparently it's not murder if you knock someone out cold and kill him then club him in the back of the head to frame someone else then go on to bribe another person to commit perjury in a deposition. No, you get off scot-free for that. Blackmail and impersonating someone else is just fine and dandy too. Verbal harassment? No problem. Nothing to see here. Move along. Embezzeling funds from a pension fund is no big deal either. But the clincher: it's not considered murder if you go along with a plot to bomb a house filled with people. You're apparently only considered a murderer if Poirot feels like saying so. The judgments were not doled out even handedly at all. Being catholic doesn't melt your brain or turn off your moral radar. Whatever the fake sister did, she did of her own volition and should have been held accountable for it. That includes making false claims at a deposition (perjury), being an accomplice to murder, receiving stolen goods, and fraud. But, I guess since she has big eyes and 2 x chromosomes, then that makes it okay? And Rowley should have gone to jail too. And what about the embezzler? In spite of that, I gave this a 10 because I am so happy to find out there are a boatload of Poirot's that I have yet to see, and because I liked the chemistry between Elliot Cowan's character and Amanda Douge's character. It was magical I thought. The party scene and the garden scene alone make it worth watching... the best on screen kiss I have ever seen, even better than Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman in "Notorious" and that's saying something. Pity the ending was so ridiculous.