This is the best performance Demi Moore has ever given in my opinion. She shows that despite her long time film career she is not the cookie cutter actress most people seem to want her to be. The accent she uses for this character is wonderfully eccentric and brings a realness to her that really makes her shine in this role. I loved her in the long blonde hair and flowy summer dresses much more then her typical costumes designed to show off her body. She was perfect as an out of whack psychic who can divine others fortunes accurately but not her own. This is a typical problem with true psychics by the way. The emotions they feel and the needs they have make it near impossible to accurately see their own future, hint: this is why you never see a psychic win the lottery. Demi is sweet and totally alluring in this film and anyone who says otherwise just has a grudge against her.<br /><br />This is a wonderfully whimsical romantic comedy with great acting on all parts. Mary Steenburgen plays a perfect shut in turned night club singer and sings beautifully in my opinion. Jeff Daniels is perfect as the semi neurotic psychiatrist whose life is being turned inside out by this lovely psychic. George Dzundza is a great comic butcher and shows that he really has the chops to be a great actor. I think the problem with this film is just that some people tend to take it to seriously and want too much from it. I have watched it over 30 times now and I love it more every single time I watch it. I wish Demi Moore would play more roles like this instead of crap like GI Jane and Charlie's Angels. As for the lesbianism add in, I don't agree with homosexuality but I'm not going to force my sensibilities on other people. There are people that are homosexual, there is no getting around it, and as long as there are there will be some of that life style written into films. If you can't deal with it then just change the channel. Don't complain that Hollywood is trying to convert everyone because it simply isn't true. There is no homosexual conspiracy. Deal with it.