The Giant Behemoth is an awesome 50's Sci-Fi Film with the best stop-motion effects u can get for this type of film from Willis O'Brien & his assistant Pete Peterson. I saw this film when I was in like 8th grade on AMC I loved it. Sadly to say still no DVD. I do have 2 nice DVDR's though one has The 79 min. U.S. Widescreen Version extras include Trailer, Posters & Lobby Cards. The other is the 70 min. U.K. Fullscreen Version with the same extras I got them both on a website that sells rare never released Classic Sci-Fi & Horror Movies on DVDR's they were both $16.55 together. That includes shipping. Well at the time in 8th grade when I saw this film on AMC I thought it was good but didn't think much of it. The film itself is actually a British version or British spin-off of the Warner Bros. 50's Sci-Fi Blockbuster The Beast From 20,000 Fathoms with Ray Harryhausen doing the Stop-Motion with his first major film with no help like he was first animator in Mighty Joe Young (1949)With Pete Peterson doing about 15% of the animation towards the end of that picture. Anyway this is one of the best Dinosaur Flicks it is about atomic waste in the Atlantic Ocean in England that makes a 200 Foot Paleosaurus Radioactive it eventually goes on a rampage in the streets of London. Letting out lethal radiation horribly burning whatever humans get it it's way on it's rampage. I don't wanna say much more any fans of 50's Sci-Fi & Stop-Motion should really check this one out. The Giant Behemoth is known as Behemoth, The Sea Monster in England. I hope to see a DVD soon out there with some nice extras & more then one version of the film an Audio Commentary by Ray Harryhausen & Ken Ralston would be nice because they did one on King Kong another Willis O'Brien Stop-Motion Classic! The Giant Behemoth (1959) is finally out on DVD from Warner Home Video came out on June 26, 2007 in Widescren 1.85:1 like The Laserdisc was. Willis O'Brien & Peterson did a great job on that film. It is one of my favorite Dinosaur Films. Sadly It is sold in a 3 DVD Box Set called Camp Cult Classics Volume 1 Sci-Fi / Thrillers u can also get it separately. Sold in the set with Attack Of The 50 Foot Woman (1958) & Queen Of Outer Space (1958) it doesn't belong with those Sci-Fi Films it is 100 times better then both of those films. It is a Sci-Fi Cult Classic but not Campy. Those films are crap compared to Behemoth it's a shame I like both those other films but Behemoth is one of my favorites & is 100 times better like I said. The movie isn't campy I don't like that name it deserves better. At least it is out on DVD finally it took long enough. Sucks I heard The Audio Commentary with Dennis Muren & Phil Tippet really sucks seems fans know more about the movie from reading Famous Monsters Of Filmland Magazine. Whole 79 mins. intact although the back of the case has some errors says 90 mins. And also has 1958 for the release year when it actually was released until 1959. It is actually 79 mins. & 40 some seconds almost 80 mins. Also heard the print is clean & looks great sharper then the Laserdisc I actually didn't get mine yet so I can say by me. Not sure if the trailer is all shitty looking or what that at least better look clean cause The Commentary sucks. A lot of those guys on The Message Board for this film amaze me though stuff I didn't even know about this film I don't read books or magazine. I never read Famous Monsters Of Filmland that Forrest J. Ackerman did. All I know is what Interviews & Commentaries I see on DVD or something on TCM or I read online about I actually had trouble finding info about this film & some other O'Brien films. I am gonna have to update my Willis O'Brien My Space Page u guys need to check that out also made one of Stop-Motion Greats David Allen & Jim Danforth need to finish Allen's though I will before his B-Day on Oct. Anyway 8 out of 10 for this.