With episode three of 'The Twilight Zone', Serling further confused those trying to get a handle on the series by presenting them with a fantasy Western. It was still a critical stage for the series and a quality episode was required after the disastrous 'One for the Angels'. Fortunately, Serling provided it. 'Mr Denton on Doomsday' is a play in two distinct acts; the first act finds the drunk and pathetic Denton suddenly regaining his unrivalled ability with a shooting iron and the second act sees him face the consequences of being a renowned gunman.<br /><br />'Mr Denton on Doomsday' is the first 'Twilight Zone' episode to feature a truly surprising and satisfying twist. But there is far more to the episode than just its pay-off. Denton is explored thoroughly as a character and Serling's writing is deeply touching, particularly as Denton reveals the reason he started drinking excessively in the first place. The cast is also extremely good. The always reliable Martin Landau has a ball as Denton's worst tormentor and Doug McClure also surfaces in a small but key role as a young gunman. Jeanne Cooper does what she can with an underwritten part as the sympathetic eye candy and Malcolm Atterbury has the perfect, character-filled face for the part of Fate. But it is undoubtedly Dan Duryea's show. His performance as Denton is multi-layered and convincing. As the drunken Denton he provides moments of real butt-clenching embarrassment as he reluctantly serenades his bullies for drink. As Denton after his powers have been restored, Duryea is hangdog and resigned to the inevitable. And finally, following the showdown, he is revitalised and full of wisdom, a man given a second chance (second chances being another recurring theme in 'The Twilight Zone').<br /><br />There are one or two little problems with the script; Denton overcomes his alcohol problem almost instantaneously and he is suddenly able to walk into a barber's shop and get a shave despite the fact he was so penniless that he had to sing for drink only moments before. Still, these are minor quibbles and the sort of thing that must be expected when you only have twenty minutes to tell your story. Serling packs plenty into those twenty minutes and tops it off with a very neat twist indeed.