This episode of 'The Twilight Zone' had an opener I hadn't seen before, or if I did, I don't remember it. It has a closeup of an eyeball that dissolves into what ostensibly would be another world or dimension in the Twilight Zone. The series would eventually make forays into every conceivable genre, and this time it was the Western. I was particularly impressed by Rod Serling's voice over narration at the beginning of the story, a hallmark that lent gravitas to the tale that was about to unfold.<br /><br />I've seen many TV Western episodes on the subject of the 'fastest gun in the West', and the topic makes for a fascinating psychological look at gunslingers and what makes them tick. Among my favorites, I would recommend 'Yawkey' from the "Lawman" series, along with one of my favorite movie Westerns, 1950's "The Gunfighter" starring Gregory Peck. Each of those, including "Mr. Denton on Doomsday", explore the various ways that men of reputation seek to live with their notoriety in the face of constant challenge. For Denton (Al Duryea), it was refuge in a bottle over the senseless but obligatory slaying of a sixteen year old upstart who would claim the title of fastest gun. For his protagonist to regain a measure of self respect, Serling introduces a secondary player who holds out the promise of redemption, a peddler who traffics in, and goes by the name of Fate.<br /><br />The twist for this TZ episode isn't so much in the outcome as it is in the execution. Both Denton and and Grant (Doug McClure) waver when they realize that neither of them can win, OR lose. It's the kind of classic TZ ending that forces the viewer to re-examine one's preconceived notions of clear cut outcomes where we're rooting for the sympathetic character. In this case, it wouldn't be Denton, even if we wanted him to emerge the hero of the story. Fate steps in to help one man out of a pit, and keep another man from falling into one. What one might consider a draw, Serling brilliantly recasts as a win for both challenger and the challenged.<br /><br />*** Quick trivia note on a goof spotted - Right after Denton drinks from the broken liquor bottle at the beginning of the story, he's shown with a large scratch on the right side of his face. In the next scene with Liz, the scratch is gone.