It's slightly flawed but hugely entertaining and not to mention hilarious. Ram Gopal Varma is probably Bollywood's Stephen King when it comes to these sort of things and I hope he takes it as a compliment. I'm a huge fan.<br /><br />Seven friends from Mumbai set out for holiday in Goa in a truck owned by the parents of one of them. As night falls, their truck hits a bump on the dark and deserted road they are on, leaving them with a conundrum when they realise that the truck doesn't have the proper tools that would enable them to change a flat tire. While conferencing, Shruti (played by Sameera Reddy) discovers a light in what looks like a house in the nearby woods and alerts the rest of the team. All but one decides to head in to see if they can find help or at least a place to lodge for the night. Upon reaching the the source of the light, they discover that it's an abandoned building. Nevertheless, the build a bonfire, gather round it in a circle and begin to tell ghost stories and urban legends. Each story reveals new characters acted out by famous Bollywood actors including but not limited to; Shilpa Shetty, Aftab Shivdasani, Saif Ali Khan, Vivek Oberoi, Antara Mali just to name a few. And each story is just as suspenseful and eerie in its own unique way.<br /><br />I had several personal favourites which included but are not limited to: The Proud Purab tale as seen on Aftab Shivdasani which had me laughing so hard that I nearly suffered a seizure. LOL! The Apple Seller story as seen on Shilpa Shetty, Sanjay Kapoor & Rajpal Yadav which happened to be the most entertaining urban legend of them all and not to mention the funniest concept. The Amar Aur John Rodriguez Bhootji story as seen on Vivek Oberoi & Nana Patekar. I had a laughing fit on this one too. Just to mention a few. Saif Ali Khan's Anil Manchandani tale was also very good and very well acted.<br /><br />The worst story lines IMHO were the Anjali & Karan tale as seen on Antara Mali and Sohail Ali Khan. As well as the story of the main characters who were sharing the urban legends with us the viewers to begin with. I wonder what the significance of the missing character in the end meant? Or did the writers not think that the audience would be observant enough to notice that one character was missing by the end of the film? A-