There is something thrilling about revenge movies. Take KILL BILL VOL. 1 and 2 or any of the Chan-wook Park films including SYMPATHY FOR MR. VENGEANCE, OLDBOY and LADY VENGEANCE. You get a sense of, "what would I do?" and for me, it is a satisfying experience to see the revenge and ultimate betrayal of what comes with it. But what happens when the revenge gets down and dirty? Take away the budget and you get something like the cult classic I SPIT ON YOUR GRAVE or LAST HOUSE ON THE LEFT, a dirty, raw and vicious look at the art of revenge.<br /><br />Well I'm happy to say, the Christian Veil and John Fallon collaboration DEADEN can proudly be added to that list. It has all the qualities of a new cult classic, as I said, it's raw and brutal but one thing it also has in abundance is charisma. In many ways it is a better film than "Grave" and you can credit that to a wonderful lead performance by Mr. John Fallon. Yes, he's got the machismo, but that seems to come easy for some; just look tough and act like you know what you are doing when pointing a gun at someone. But John also has vulnerability, loads of it. He suffers horrible in the opening sequence, the one which inspires his revenge in a Chuck Bronson sort of way. And you believe it. This film would not have worked with a lesser actor as Rane, the pain killer addicted druggy and the much put upon and surprising survivor of a nasty attack.<br /><br />I don't want to give to much away regarding plot because all you really need to know is that somebody screws somebody over in a BIG way, and revenge will be exacted. At what cost you may say Well, lucky for us, both Fallon and Veil seem to love the art of horror and even though this is not a horror film per se, the images portrayed definitely feel horrific in mood and for such a limited budget, really shine here.<br /><br />And as with many low-budget shockers, this isn't a perfect film. There are a few performances that seem either a little flat or way too "chew up the scenery" big. But most of them do their job competently. I also had a few moments where I felt the budget and that had to do with a couple of odd cuts and crude camera work. But Christian Veil knows the kind of movie he is making and he gives us more than enough action to make us long for the politically incorrect films of the Seventies. This is a nostalgic look back at the dark, brooding anti-hero who has a personal vendetta, and he happens to dig cocaine and messing people up! This is a bloody, vicious and violent flick with a little T & A for good measure and it may very well become a cult classic.