Overall, I thought this movie had a nice theme. The way the director displayed the various types of people in the Wolof village was excellent. He had the older Wolof people seeming wise in their traditional-looking costume and tone of voice. He had the "Kings" who were of western (American) influence as the sort of rebel group, however harmless and sort of stupid, which I found funny. They were so stuck on looking and admiring people like Jimi Hendrix that they didn't know much about anything, even the American innovative rock which seemed to be their purpose. <br /><br />Then you have the regular students and the Ins who were somewhere in the middle, however in a different way. They seemed to be half traditional Wolof and half French influence due to their teacher. I thought it was interesting how the director portrayed the views on the teacher. He was well-liked and always wore a white suit (as if he was a good, pure man), despite his rude and ironic breakdown in the restaurant. The director's main point seemed to be to show people of non-African (or even African culture) exactly how it was that they were able to be colonized, and just how much of it went on.<br /><br />Despite the good story of the film, there was a lot that went wrong, too. What went wrong was unfortunate because it seemed to be all things that should NOT have been a problem in film for that time. The same scene being shot in plain day and then pure darkness was not only confusing at first, but extremely annoying. I also found the Foley annoying, because it was noticeable. When you view a movie, you shouldn't NOTICE that a slapping sound is weird or unrealistic sounding, and it was in this movie. The music in the background, such as "Sitting on the Dock of the Bay" seemed out of place considering it wasn't even played when showing the only American-influenced group of people. <br /><br />So although the movie had the right idea but poor structure, I would recommend the movie for older people that are not African. When I say older I mean mature enough to recognize culture differences, and I say non African because I think the director was aiming more towards SHOWING colonization to others.