Wow, even some of the reviewers of this movie seem to be at a complete loss of words when they try to describe the picture. They barely understand why it is so frightening, why they can't sleep afterwards or what it is that chills them to the bone. I can offer an explanation: this film depicts acts made of pure evil, evil in its most disturbing form. Not committed by some entertaining movie-maniac like Freddy or Pinhead that cracks jokes while slaughtering folks, but by something that is a lot more frightening, more haunting and terrifying: an entirely normal human being. Other reviewers seem to miss a motive for the atrocities, a reason for the escalation, apart from Ruths obvious derangement and general frustration with life, and ask why the others (especially since they're still kids) join in so easily. They are actually looking for explanations. C'mon, people, wake up! It's the same thing that makes drunk daddy hit his five year old with an empty liquor bottle or beat mommy to a pulp right in front of the eyes of his terror-frozen offspring. Because he can, that's why. Because he's frustrated and in a position of absolute power, and power tends to corrupt, doesn't it? Now, combine this with barely suppressed unfocused anger and you have your motive. First comes frustration, then anger, then violence, then abuse. One might say it's the devils ladder, a downward spiral straight to hell. And when they get to the bottom, sick individuals like Ruth might even get some revolting kind of kick out of the fact they can use and abuse the weak to their liking. Just like a kid that tortures a frog or beats up a smaller co-ed, tapes it with a handy-cam and posts the clip on youtube to boast with his inhumanity. Plus, you never needed the devil to rape, mutilate or open up a KZ - a mere human will always suffice. So, to the rest of you: be warned, folks, if you're looking for cheap thrills, this is not the right movie for you. Neither is there anything in it one in his right mind could "enjoy", like, let's say, your average horror flick. Rather be prepared to be filled up with anger and sadness to the bottom of your very soul. I won't watch this a second time, but surely its art, though not the pleasant kind.<br /><br />8/10