I saw this movie and laughed and laughed and laughed. I was shocked and offended. It was one of the bravest movies of the year, nevertheless decade, or history. It was definitely bigger and longer. It certainly seemed uncut, even though it wasn't. See June 29 studio brief. It was hilarious.<br /><br />Plot: The movie had a great plot. I won't give it all away, but it is definitely big. It starts with Stan, Cartman, Kyle, Kenny, and Kyle's little brother sneaking into the Terrance Phillip movie, "A**es of Fire," which has been rated R. They learn all kinds of swear words and use them at all times. The rest of South Park kids see it also, and by the next school day, the parents find out and totally hate the movie. They form a group against the movie. It goes out from there. There is also a plot with Kenny going to hell, and finding Saddam Hussein and Satan in love. Saddam is a hornball. And Satan regrets the whole relationship.<br /><br />Crudity: Definitely for adults only. It probably has the most swear words than any other movie this year. It has cartoon nudity. It has breasts and wriggling penises. All cartoon, of course. It has violence galore by the end. Do not take your kids to see this, or be prepared to feel uncomfortable. All theaters must enforce the carding laws for this one. However, if none of this will offend you to the point of hatred, do not see this. It also has racism, sexism, and offends every group out there from the Gays to the MPAA to the parents.<br /><br />As a whole: The funniest movie so far of 1999. I laughed so hard. I found it only mildly offensive personally, but then I also love the movie "Pink Flamingos." I cannot recommend this movie to everyone. I can recommend it to those who are not offended easily. This does not include the people who feel brave because they survived "There's Something About Mary." Parents will not like this movie unless they are completely open-minded, and I recommend not seeing it with your children. However, it is wonderful. I loved the musical format that they chose. Everywhere there is a song. Also stay past the credits, there is an after-scene. It is trying to be a "Pink Flamingos." I love it but can only recommend it to the group from 17-30, male.----------------------------10