With this movie and 1999's "Fight Club", David Fincher cemented his status as *the* most visually creative director of the 90's, and one of the most original, inventive and compelling storytellers working in Hollywood. If "Fight Club" was the ultimate theme park ride for repressed white collar slaves, "Se7en" is the haunted house. While not a horror movie per say, it is infinitely more frightening, emotionally scarring and disturbing than anything that George A. Romero, Dario Argento or Hideo Nakata could possibly offer.<br /><br />From its first frame, "Se7en" sets its tone with Fincher's bleak visuals, moody weather and Howard Shore's slow, atmospheric music (you won't believe this is the guy who would go on to make the unforgettable Lord of the Rings score). It's a visual masterpiece, throwing you into an anonymous, dark city which seems to be the Nirvana of the dregs of society. In the middle of the city's violent everyday chaos an invisible John Doe has set a horrible plot in motion, his goal to punish seven unrelated people for their crimes, turning their own sins against them (Gluttony, Greed, Sloth, Pride, Lust, Envy, and Wrath). Working methodically, patiently and intelligently, Doe builds at his murder masterwork, piece by piece, slowly drawing police detectives Somerset and Mills into the web. Somerset (played brilliantly by Morgan Freeman whom I usually detest) is the hardened, cynical veteran who's about to retire, Mills (Brad Pitt, exceptionally good) is the rookie who's troubled by his own naive personality and hot temper. The "unlikely partners" thing might sound clichéd by now, but trust me, you won't even notice. <br /><br />What makes the movie so compelling are the fantastic performances from a diverse cast, an utterly unpredictable, frighteningly sadistic plot, intelligent scriptwriting by Andrew Kevin Walker, and David Fincher's superb direction, which is unlike anything you've seen before. Fincher shows an uncanny ability to keep the viewers at the edge of their seats, creating, through the use of visuals and music alone, an angsty, forceful sense of unease which lasts until the film's shocking climax. Anyone who thought Brad Pitt was all good looks and no talent will have to take it back after seeing him convince beautifully as Mills, and Freeman's character is, for once, not the sugar-sweet know-it-all he's typecast himself as. Gwyneth Paltrow is also good as Mills' wife. But it is John Doe who leaves the lasting impression - the uncredited actor (whose name I won't mention, in tradition with the movie) gives a monotonous yet completely spellbinding performance and you find yourself understanding and sympathizing with his motives far more than you'd want to admit. <br /><br />Se7en is grisly, sick and depressing, although most of the horrific violence is only implied, never shown. However, the aftermath of the murders - especially the revoltingly sadistic Sloth - is often enough to make you lose your lunch. This is a feel-bad movie and it's proud of it. You cannot watch it expecting another ho-hum, by-the-numbers thriller in the vein of, say, "The Sentinel". "Se7en" is depressing, frightening, shocking, fascinating, original, and it features enough talent acting-, direction- and script-wise to fill a hundred Sentinels or Domestic Disturbances. Bring some friends with strong stomaches and watch it - if you dare. But make sure you'll be able to sleep with the lights on.