Produced during or just before the glory days of the made-for-television movie, this film depicts the struggle of a difficult man, left to his own devices in the desert. Hill plays a wealthy, but obstinate, heavy-drinking and bitter, man who is on a trip into the desert with his wife and their guide to examine a potential mine. When he falls from his horse and breaks his leg severely, the wife Muldaur and the guide Stacy leave him with some water and supplies and ride back for help. However, realizing this is a golden chance to be rid of Hill, Muldaur suggests that she and Stacy leave him in the desert to die of exposure and starvation! She offers herself and her prospective inheritance as the reward for his going along with the plan. While she and Stacy wonder about the status of their scheme as they lollygag around the swimming pool, Hill realizes what has happened and decides he is not going to be done in quite that easily. He sets his own leg using supplies that the duo has left behind and begins the arduous trek back to the civilized world. Meanwhile, his business associate Carey wonders what's going on and local sheriff Ansara keeps looking for him (even several weeks after the disappearance!) Hill is effective as the nasty grouch who begins to find inner strength and, eventually, inner peace through his harrowing ordeal. Some elements of his self-rescue, however, are either far-fetched or downright preposterous (witness the "Snow White"-like scenario at the watering hole in which a deer, a raccoon, a turtle, a rabbit and a skunk-!!- casually hang out with him as he quenches his thirst.) Muldaur, an actress who effortlessly projected cool calculation, does a nice job as well. She isn't the stunning siren that, perhaps, might be a more obvious lure for Stacy, but her money and her skill as a lover make up for that, certainly. Stacy is laconic and quite understated, though that makes him somewhat more believable. Sadly, he would suffer a devastating motorcycle accident not long after this, losing an arm and a leg. His pre-accident physique can be glimpsed in the poolside scene where he's garbed in just a navy swimsuit. Carey has a thankless part which he plays in a workmanlike way while Ansara tries to inject some flavor into his standard issue part. A remake of a 1953 film called "Inferno," which starred Robert Ryan and Rhonda Fleming, this is an enjoyable, if unspectacular, movie that has a more ambiguous and non-violent ending than the original film. Kitsch fans will enjoy checking out Muldaur's 70's clothing and home furnishings while scenery aficionados will appreciate the desert location filming.