People have lauded Seth Macfarlane's 'Family Guy 'as the only cartoon to make pop cultural references in its show but in actuality, it was Freakazoid that really started it all off. The sarcasm and humorous send-ups and spoofs of politicians, celebrities, TV and movie characters franchise's was used to great effect. Freakazoid also pokes fun at the other superheroes; thus he is the antithesis of the traditional superhero- if you have watched the show you can tell that he sure doesn't act like one. Originally a teenage computer nerd, he becomes Freakazoid overnight after he is zapped by the computer screen, whilst on his PC and thus he becomes a totally different character, wearing a black mask and what looks like either red leather spandex or tight skinned pyjamas. <br /><br />Originally aimed at a much younger audience, the humour in Freakazoid can be enjoyed by many adults as well. In fact, almost all the pop and cultural references in Freakazoid can be best understood if you are above 16. The jokes, puns, are often laugh out loud funny, sharp and original and the comic delivery was spot on. The jokes and the spoofing of celebrities, politicians was done in a way that you'd be laughing your head off. <br /><br />Indeed, Freakazoid is a very interesting concept, and very clever it is too. Why the hell this was cancelled, I have no idea but whatever that reason is, whether it had to do with the fact it didn't attract such a massive audience, or it was simply the fact that many people just didn't get it whatsoever, Freakazoid wasn't just one of Warner Bros. better cartoons that dared to be different- but rather it was different to the extent to which it didn't sacrifice the humour, creativity and originality. <br /><br />My favourite moments were the celebrity intro of the first season when 2 women, who looked like Hilary Clinton and Princess Diana, had a punch up over Freakazoid. As this happens, Freakazoid goes: 'now, now there's plenty of me to go round. and if there isn't well, I'll just have them draw me bigger!' LMAO! and in quantum freak- a spin off of the 90s US show, Quantum leap-,there is even a short but famous scene taken from the film, The Graduate where Mrs Robinson shows off her legs, or indeed one of them in front of our superhero. <br /><br />One of the last great cartoons of the 20th century, this under rated and under appreciated effort didn't get the recognition and mass audience appeal it so richly deserved. As one has written, whilst he lacks superpowers of any kind, Freakazoid's wit, humour and sarcasm all make up for it. Combine all this with great animation, and terrific humour and what you get with Freakazoid is a brilliant, riotous and downright funny show with a capital F. The people at Warner Bros made a terrible mistake in axing this cartoon, as this was truly a blast from start to finish