I found Framed to be a pretty entertaining film overall - unfortunately, the only version of the film available to me here in the United States is the Americanized version of the film. As a British television miniseries, Framed clocks in at around four hours; the American version on the other hand was somehow edited down to a crispy two hour TV-feature. Strangely (and luckily) enough, that editing process did not make the American version of Framed disjointed, odd, or confusing. Whether or not it is better or worse than the original miniseries form, the U.S. cut of Framed is actually a pretty good film with fine performances from lead actors Timothy Dalton and David Morrissey.<br /><br />Vacationing in Spain, British police Sgt. Larry Jackson (David Morrissey) thinks he is seeing a ghost: a convict-turned-informant named Eddie Myers (Timothy Dalton) who was supposed to have died after escaping custody. Further investigation by Jackson reveals that the man he is seeing really is Myers and Jackson orchestrates Myers' arrest. Myers now spends his days with Jackson in a police-run compound giving up his powerful one-time criminal accomplices - and messing with Jackson's mind and life....<br /><br />The production value is what one might expect from an early-1990s TV production - which is to say, bland - but other elements make the film worthwhile: the film's story is engrossing and the acting is very good. David Morrissey is a very good lead as Sgt. Jackson; Timothy West gives an entertaining turn as Jimmy McKinnes, the high-ranking police official hell-bent on using Myers to his fullest; and (a dubbed) Penélope Cruz makes a nice showing. Timothy Dalton is the film's brightest star - as Myers, Dalton is fantastic as this intelligent and high-classed but dangerous and unpredictable criminal mind.<br /><br />Although half of its original material has been cut out, the American version of Framed is an entertaining film; but boy would I have liked to have seen what the other two hours included.