Laura is an agoraphobic who works from her laptop and has her friend Nikki run all of her errands for her. Her psychological disease doesn't seem to affect her life much, except for the fact that she answers the door with a large kitchen knife. But soon she notices that things in her apartment are being arranged, and after one terrifying incident she is convinced her apartment is haunted. Desperate and unable to leave her home, she seeks the help of Elizabeth, a hokey online ghosthunter.<br /><br />There's a lot to dislike about "GhostWatcher," but this is really one of the better no-budge horror movies distributed by Lion's Gate that I have had the pleasure of watching. Now that I think of it, I found this haunted house flick is more entertaining than any of the recent theatrically released ones (The Grudge, Darkness, Amityville). The plot is original (if you discount Copycat), and although it isn't exploited to its full potential, there are some damn fine twists that keep the story interesting. The story structure is not that different from The Ring. Unfortunately, there are also some stupid plot elements that should have been removed or tweaked. Some of the scares are effectively frightening (there is one scene that should get to anyone who allows themselves to be scared), while others are silly, mostly due to poor make-up effects. The lighting in this film is surprisingly impressive and often comes across as influenced by Argento. The acting is another hit-or-miss factor, but it is refreshing that the leads are all capable women, and women that look very normal. In fact, the movie looks like a big group of friends got together with limited resources to make a horror film. But make no mistake, this is a good ghost story, not a belligerent Troma flick. These folks are talented and know what they're doing. While the score is well done, my biggest complaint is the music used in the film, which consists of generic aggro-rock that disrupts the overall tone of the movie. I would recommend this to anyone who has an open mind about very low-budge horror. My Rating: 6.5/10.