I'm reminded while watching Death Valley: The Revenge of Bloody Bill on the sci-fi channel something George A. Romero said recently about certain new horror directors: "They shot Faith Hill's last music video, and they think they're hot s***. Do they know how to handle it? No, they don't. Put 'em at an editing table, and they're clueless." Although Byrum Werner (maybe the coolest name for an exploitation director, I'll admit) probably hasn't done a Faith Hill video, the comparison can still apply. Werner shouldn't be directing anything remotely related to celluloid, from seeing the catastrophe that is 'Bloody Bill', as he tries to compensate for a rote and crappy script with much worse 'style'. <br /><br />Maybe it's a personal thing, but it's a pet peeve for me when a director uses a specific tint for a purpose that is completely ancillary, where it's more about calling attention to itself than serving any meaningful stylistic choice (Spielberg may be the only one who can get away with it). In this case, Werner uses it to the point of total madness, and not good madness: the tint is actually a lot of the time just on the *top part of the frame*, making it a foolish distraction. This goes without saying that the whole color scheme in general, whether applied by Werner himself as DP or in post, is annoying because it makes it obvious that he doesn't trust anything regarding the actual space being used, or maybe using some natural light or shadows to make atmosphere, instead of splashing on this crude red- often in a blurred vision (FOCUS! I screamed more than once). Don't even get me started on the editing in many instances, where random montage and action is cut as if by an epileptic puppy.<br /><br />The story itself is rote anyway: a bunch of teens riding out in the desert get car-jacked (!?) by a black guy who leads them to the ghost town of Sunset Valley, overrun by (usually) running zombies led by Bloody Bill, who has a vendetta against someone done wrong by someone and blah blah blah. Point is, a lot of this, however just totally ludicrous it all sounds (Bloody Bill's a confederate- no Yankees or blacks after all), could just be moot if it was at least a halfway decently acted or technically executed effort. It's not, at all.<br /><br />Watching Death Valley is like getting a checklist for things that could possibly go wrong for a movie and do, over and over again. The music is fourth-rate metal garbage on loan from the boys who've been practicing in the garage next-door; the "performances" are from nobodys (Gregory Bastian goes to lengths to be a bad-ass mutha, but is one of the most ineffectual I've seen in recent memory), this including Bloody Bill's 'actor' who is barely on screen at all; the gore and violence is directed amateurishly, with tomato-sauce blood and eye-liner used for added "effect" during the transformation from living to dead; even the production design, with the sign changing from time to time from 99 to 107 from start to finish is cheesy in an unforgivable way.<br /><br />It works only up to a completely ironic point; make sure you've got the right friends and good booze lying around and it should make for a chummy Saturday night movie. But good lord, don't go into it expecting any semblance of an entertaining B-horror movie. It's drek of the shlockiest order, and I'd have to be paid more than the actors themselves were (if they were that is) to sit through it again.