Tears could not be held back when viewing this BMW film. The first film was a groundbreaking car chase by the "master" John Frankenheimer. The second was probably the most beautiful car chase ever filmed by Crouching Tiger and Ice Storm filmmaker Ang Lee. The third didn't really effect me as much as the others but it still held it's place. The Guy Richie fourth film was just downright hilarious, I have never seen Madonna utilized in... that way.<br /><br />Now I am brought to this film, done by Alejandro Gonzalez Inaritu, famous for his breakthrough film "Amores Perros" which I also had the pleasure of viewing. If you have not seen this movie I highly recommend it due to the fact that it leaves you feeling three different emotions for three different vignettes. A movie hasn't moved me in that way in a long time.<br /><br />"Powder Keg" follows The Driver, played by Clive Owen who is always portrayed in the other films as a hard-boiled merc with a soft side somewhere. In this film, his soft side is his care for human life. He knows his passenger may be dying from a gun shot wound but he doesn't want him to because he believes his passenger is key to preserving human life. On the flipside, his dying passenger believes that his sole purpose in life, as a war photographer, has been to photograph death. He believes he has never saved anyone and his pictures do nothing more but "Sell a few more papers"<br /><br />Without ruining any of the actions that take place in the second half of these 8 minutes, I assure you that in these 8 minutes you will feel more intensity, hatred, sadness, and fear than in any other 8 minutes of watching a film. At a point I felt the same intensity of watching a "certain" scene from "The Deer Hunter", at points, this film shares the same mood of the "The Deer Hunter" and "Amores Perros", but at the same time creates it's own mood. This film will start you with open eyes and leave you with eyes of tears. There is nothing bad I can say about this movie because it was never cheesy, never dragging, and never melo-dramatic. And if you are moved deeply by this film I highly recommend "Amores Perros" which is done in the same style.<br /><br />I conclude by giving credit where credit is due. I am sure it is not news when I state that Clive Owen is an amazing actor. In this film he delivers his best performance. The reasoning behind this being his best performance is that his eyes contain so much emotion that you can feel exactly what he is. Also that is a great job on Inaritu's part being able to capture that emotion. An all around amazing 8 minutes. Required viewing. 10/10