"Quel Maledetto Treno Blindato" aka. "Inglorious Bastards" of 1978 is a highly entertaining little piece of War/action exploitation cinema brought to you by no one else than cult-director Enzo G. Castellari. This has many similarities to Robert Aldtrich's classic "The Dirty Dozen" (1967), only that this one is pure, awesome late 70s Italian exploitation. The prolific Hollywood stars of "The Dirty Dozen" are replaced with exploitation regulars like Bo Svenson and, most memorably, the great Fred Williamson. In France of 1944, a bunch of WW2 US-Army soldiers are about to be brought to a POW prison for different offenses, when the Military Police truck they are being transported in is suddenly attacked by Germans. Five of them take the opportunity to escape, among them an officer (Bo Svenson) and the super-tough black Pvt. Fred Canfield (Fred Williamson). They decide to flee to Switzerland, which is not easy, since they have both the Military Police and the Germans against them... Basically, the five unite all the characteristics that the twelve members of the "Dirty Dozen" had. Bo Svenson and Fred Williamson basically are the heroes of the pack, Williamson being the tough and super-cool black dude and Svenson the clever Strategist. The rest of the bunch include a trickster with an affinity to jokes and theft, basically the guy responsible for the fun-part, a young wuss who almost wets his pants throughout the film, and a sinister and racist jerk. The supporting cast includes a bunch of familiar faces for exploitation fans, I was especially delighted to see the great Donal O'Brien in a small role. Still, the main reason to watch this is Fred Williamson, who is, once again, coolness personified. The film does not have the great storyline or character-drawing of "The Dirty Dozen", but it makes up for this with lots of action, explosions, bloody battle and occasional female nudity. Even so, the film is not nearly as outrageously violent as I had expected it to be (and neither is it very sleazy). Yet, this is a highly entertaining and great fun to watch War/Action flick that I highly recommend to all my fellow exploitation-buffs!