Like a lot of folks, I had only known about INGLORIOUS BASTARDS through word of mouth. I had read user comments enthusiastically praising the film and was anxious to see it for myself. And, I'm so glad I did! Enzo G. Castellari's INGLORIOUS BASTARDS is a phenomenal war film, with superbly orchestrated action scenes and a really unique premise. It allows those who have committed wrong to make up for their mistakes in a very dangerous mission where the likelihood of survival is low.<br /><br />A small group of soldiers to be court-marshaled for bad behavior while serving in WWII escape a German attack while being transfered by their superiors to be tried for their crimes. Unable to re-join their American military due to their potential death by firing squad, they instead pursue the difficult task of moving through occupied France in the hopes of making it to neutral Switzerland, evading constant threats by stationed(..or moving)Nazi forces throughout the country-side. After picking up a German defector, the group encounter a number of hostile threats, using him as a possible method of escaping them, until the unfortunate slaughter of their own men, costumed in Nazi uniforms. In a twist of fate, they instead will assume the roles of the American soldiers they shot on accident by going on a frightening mission, in assistance with French freedom fighters(partisans)to commandeer a train containing a deadly war-head, Colonel in town to disarm it. When everything seems to be on schedule, the mission suffers a major set-back when a second train featuring a host of German soldiers arrives in the village where the first was supposed to stop, with many men dead after all is said and done.<br /><br />Great cast to accompany Enzo G. Castellari's series of exciting, thrilling shootouts. Bo Svenson as Lt. Robert Yeager, who acquires the leadership role of the team when he leads them out of a major jam where German and American soldiers are engaged in combat. Understanding German, having blond hair and blue eyes(..statuesque and fitting the profile of the typical Kraut), Yeager offers potential escape from sticky situations. Pvt. Fred Canfield(The Hammer, Fred Williamson)is the muscle of the group, his being black making things a bit tough when they are trying to go through a variety of German checkpoints. He often finds himself at odds with Tony(Peter Hooten), a gambler who has been up for Court Martial twice before his latest conviction of murder..Tony is a racist and makes the mistake of confronting Canfield one too many times, the result his being tossed for a loop! Nick(Michael Pergolani), an Italian thief whose pickpocketing(..and his abilities at forging documents!) actually benefits the group during their journey! Berle(Jackie Basehart), tried to desert, his sickening fear of war often causing his bowels to malfunction. Adolf(Raimund Harmstorf)is the German prisoner the team comes across, who willingly helps them along the way, before his fate is sealed with they encounter the American soldiers disguised as Nazi officers. Veronique(Michel Constantin)is the brave leader of the partisans and Nicole(Debra Berger)is a nurse whose family were murdered by a German air raid..she's Tony's love interest and bravely helps her people temporarily secure a village captured by Germans. Ian Bannen has the role of Colonel Buckner, the one responsible for disarming the warhead who establishes the plan to raid the train, including the plot to explode a bridge.<br /><br />Expert use of slow motion at the end and the numerous machine gun combats between our anti-heroes/partisans and their German adversaries really highlight this great adventure. The climax featuring the train and it's station is dynamic and plenty suspenseful. Fine sequence where Yeager, Tony, and Nick must rescue Canfield and Buckner from a castle containing a host of German officers. A real must-see for action fans clamoring for perilous situations featuring a band of soldiers with no home, attempting to salvage their lost reputations. Many of the war torn sequences where director Enzo G. Castellari displays the carnage left by a parade of warfare is stunning. Good humorous touches here and there, with Williamson and Svenson given plum roles to flex their macho personas.