All The Winters That Have Been is a compelling story , based on the novel written by Evan Maxwell. It is divided in two parts, each containing a strong message. In the first part, agent Dane Corvin (Richard Chamberlain) is posing as a businessman interested in buying fish illegally caught by members of the Swinomish Indian Tribal Community. A law passed to limit fishing and protect fish resources in the area makes it impossible for this community to continue living from their traditional salmon and shellfish fisheries anymore if they do not resort to poaching . So although it is true that the Swinomish violate the law on fishing, this law does not take into account the fact that they have always made a living out of fishing and cannot survive without. Dane Corvin, who falls in love with the half Swinomish and half Irish Hannah ( Karen Allen), understands the plight of the Swinomish but fails to postpone the operation. The arrest of Hannah 's brother puts an end to Dane's and Hannah's relationship leaving both characters deeply hurt. The second part starts when 20 years later Dane Corvin comes back to the area to visit his dying uncle (Hal Holbrook) whose last wish is to bring Dane and Hannah together again. Dane who has been hurting and missing Hannah for 20 years has taken refuge in his loneliness that keeps him most of the time in Alaska for preservation campaigns in favor of bears and wolves. Hannah who has become an important artist and whose art contributes to the development and wellbeing of the Swinomish community, has moved on with her life and her secret. Hannah unconsciously has forgiven Dane but circumstances prevent her from verbalizing her forgiveness. She has to meet Dane again in order to listen to her heart, accept her love for him and tell him her secret. It is now Dane's turn to find in his heart and soul how to reconcile all the elements of his shattered life and so make forgiveness and love the main messages of the second part of the movie. <br /><br />The great director, Lamont Johnson, ( who directed Richard Chamberlain in several episodes of Dr Kildare in the early 60s and in Wallenberg in 1985) succeeds in making a movie with a quick sequence of scenes that follow each other very smoothly but allows at the same time the actors to make great performances and fully take advantage of the dialog that sounds in some instances like a theater play... Richard Chamberlain, Karen Allen and Hal Holbrook are magnificent, sober intensity is the key word for their acting in a movie that allies hard facts of life with tenderness, romance, love and forgiveness. Beautiful locations in British Columbia, excellent lighting and photography - you really feel the cutting touch of the crisp air blowing from the bright blue sea and you smell the fresh fragrance of the dark green spruces - are added reason why I like to watch and re-watch this movie. The sunset light that embraces with its magic aura Dane standing on the porch briefly reminds a scene of Marcel Camus renowned Orfeo Negro of 1959.