The cast changes made between the series were perfect. I enjoyed Winds of War, although I didn't really care for Jan Michael Vincent as Byron or Ali McGraw (who I never found attractive) as Natalie. Hart Bochner is excellent as Byron and a much better actor than Vincent, and Jane Seymour as Natalie delivers the performance of a lifetime. The scene where (SPOILER!!!) she eats an entire apple, seeds, stem and all, on the train car taking her to Auschwitz is stunning in its power, its portrayal of true hunger and of Natalie's indomitable will to survive and see her son again.<br /><br />John Houseman is a fine actor, but rather cold and unreadable, so replacing him with Sir John Gielgud, with his warm and expressive grandfatherly face, was a smart move. And anyone with a lick of sense would have replaced that comical, cardboard cutout of a Hitler from the first series. Steve Berkoff does a pretty good job in that role. And Sharon Stone is ... hmmm ... delicious as Janet. You can understand why Byron is so attracted to her.<br /><br />I guess they couldn't replace Bob Mitchum as Victor Henry, and he does a fine job, but I kind of wish they had chosen a younger actor for the role originally. Mitchum was in his 70's and in the novels "Pug" is in his early to mid 50's. Still, he does give the role a gravity that perhaps not many actors in their 50's at that time would have been able to pull off.<br /><br />Anyway, after Winds of War I remember someone saying in an article in TV Guide or someplace that they would never make War and Remembrance because it was just too big. Then a few years later here it is (I wasn't even aware they were filming it ... that would never happen today with the Internet, lol). I was so excited when I saw it was coming to television (I was in my early 20's at the time) and I watched every minute of it and taped most of it. It is one of the most amazing productions I have ever seen. I was mesmerized.<br /><br />The death camp scenes, shown without commercial interruption, are graphic and gut-wrenching to watch. War may be hell but this deliberate, calculated, methodical "processing" of men, women, and children plumbed the deepest depths of human evil. What is truly terrifying is that the Auschwitz commander, Rudolf Hoess (Gunther Halmer) is never portrayed as an out-and-out "evil" man. He feels some guilt for what his job calls on him to do but feels he nevertheless must do it as best and efficiently and "humanely" as he can. He is just another fellow, a family man, trying to do his job and get ahead. It just so happens that his "job" is presiding over a mass slaughter of helpless men, women, and children whose only crime was being Jewish.<br /><br />Other standout scenes for me included the submarine battles, which were every bit as suspenseful and terrifying and claustrophobic as "Das Boot." The final scene is perfect in every way--I've watched it dozens of times. It's done a little differently than in the book but the changes are just right. I won't describe it but it will lift your heart and make you cry like a baby at the same time. Powerful and deeply moving.