"The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe" is a film with a lot to live up to. Not just it's (considerable) legacy, but the many recent fantasy films as well. The one place where there are no worries is the story. Four children living in London during WW2 are sent away as refugees to live in the country. The place they are staying is the home of an elderly professor. The youngest soon discovers a magical wardrobe which leads into another world. All of this is brilliant set-up for an adventure. It works much better than if they had simply entered a wardrobe in their own home. Out of many difficulties related to production, one of the largest lay in the script. Ann Peacock did a fine job adapting a film which is not particularly suited to the cinema. The director, Andrew Adamson is a bit unsteady with his first live-action feature. At times, a real spark is evident, but it is sometimes filmed too much like animation. One of the most important parts is the score. Harry Gregson-Williams does do a fine job, but has not created a score that is quite good enough to work separate from the film. The few vocals that are included work nicely as well.<br /><br />The cast is nearly perfect. The expression of wonder and awe on the face of Georgie Henley (Lucy) seems to be completely real. She is a joy to watch, and appears to truly love playing her role. Skandar Keynes (Edmund) plays his character with all appropriate mean-spiritedness and greedy attitude. William Moseley and Anna Popplewell (Peter and Susan) are good as well, but not as complicated or important characters as the two youngest. Tilda Swinton (Jadis - The White Witch) has a shockingly sharp stare, which she uses greatly to her advantage. Her appearance and demeanor are excellently suited to her role. James McAvoy (Tumnus) is one of the stand-out supporting roles, and fits seamlessly into his animated lower half. Of course, most important of all is the character of Aslan, voiced by Liam Neeson. A perfect choice for the role, Neeson gives a sense of great age and dignity.<br /><br />Even though I missed the opening night due to bad Canadian weather, the crowd retained that grand spirit of being one of the first to see a film. "The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe" has left a big impression for fantasy films to follow, and will likely be followed by six more motion pictures from The Chronicles of Narnia.<br /><br />9.1 out of 10