This film is a rich one. Cary Grant is a charming artist who is always finding himself pulled into court by trouble he never intended to cause. Trouble finds Grant everywhere, because he is a magnet to women, and men get jealous. He is brought to court for just such an occurrence, and low and behold the judge is Myrna Loy. She is a no nonsense judge, but she allows Grant's lawyer (Dan Tobin) to convince her to let him off with a lecture.<br /><br />However, soon after, Grant delivers a lecture on the pleasures of a career in art to the local high school. Unfortunately he attracts the attention of high school senior Shirley Temple. Temple manages to go to Grant's apartment and get inside - she feels they are made for each other. But she falls asleep, and Grant returns home without noticing her. He gets into his pajamas and dressing gown and makes himself a drink, planning to read a book before bed. He puts on the music, waking up Temple. She says hello to him while he looks totally confused - and then there is pounding at his door. It is the police, the D.A. (Rudy Vallee) and Temple's sister...yes Myrna Loy.<br /><br />Grant is arrested on a very sticky charge - we are never informed precisely, but it appears to be attempted statutory rape. However, Loy is convinced by her uncle Ray Collins, to be easy on Grant - if she isn't, Temple will always think of Grant as a martyr. Grant has to help Temple get him out of her system. So Grant is given a suspended sentence if he cooperates (which he really hates doing).<br /><br />The story is very odd in it's reversals of character. Loy never played such a high ranking professional before, nor had Grant played an artist of any type. Temple, the darling little girl of the 1930s, was now grown up, and here comes closest to playing a really bratty character: so spoiled that she does not care about how her actions affect Loy, Grant, Vallee, and her boyfriend from high school (Johnny Sands).<br /><br />Possibly the most curious change in character is Vallee. He became something of a fixture in films in the 1940s, usually with Preston Sturgis like in THE SIN OF HAROLD DIDDLEBOCK or THE PALM BEACH STORY, or in films like I REMEMBER MAMA. His character were somewhat pompous but basically harmless. Here he is (due to growing jealousy, but initially due to disgust) in his most unlikeable character. After Grant is released, he meets Vallee in front of Loy and Temple's house. Vallee, sneeringly says, "Why don't you come to my home for my niece's birthday party? You'd like her...she's six!!" Grant, understandably, looks like he wants to flatten the crooner. Later on he steals a chair in a restaurant from a patron who was using it (causing the patron to fall down). The patron confronts him, but Vallee won't even consider apologizing. So the patron evens the score a second later.<br /><br />In this comedy you discover all about the man with a power (what power - Hoodoo! You'll catch on). You will see veteran nice old grandpa Harry Davenport show a less likable side to his nature, taking out his anger on defenseless chessmen. You will enjoy this quirky comedy, and be glad you saw it.