I get goose bumps just thinking of the larger than life opening of this film... Kathryn Grayson was one of the favorite stars of screen musicals during their heyday in the late 1940s and early 1950s. Kathryn Grayson was a visually and vocally striking singer and actress who graced some of the most popular films of the postwar era, including "Anchors Aweigh" (1947) and "Kiss Me Kate" (1953). Blessed with a coloratura soprano from an early age, she was discovered by MGM chief Louis B. Mayer while a teenager, and was signed to a contract without the benefit of a screen test or drama lessons. In this version of Show Boat, Ms. Grayson, plays Magnolia Hawks, the captain's innocent daughter, who falls for the handsome gambler Gaylord Ravenal (Howard Keel). Show Boat is widely considered one of the most influential works of the American musical theatre. As the first true American "musical play", it marked a significant departure from operettas, light musical comedies of the 1890s and early 20th century and the "Follies"-type musical revues that had defined Broadway.<br /><br />According to The Complete Book of Light Opera, "Here we come to a completely new genre – the musical play as distinguished from musical comedy. Now... the play was the thing, and everything else was subservient to that play. Now... came complete integration of song, humor and production numbers into a single and inextricable artistic entity. The third and (to date) last film version of the Edna Ferber/Jerome Kern/Oscar Hammerstein II musical. (1929, 1936, 1951) One of the few titles I can think of where every version is good! I.B. TECHNICOLOR. Almost a novelty when it was introduced to film in the early 1920's, Technicolor reached its zenith in the 1940's and 50's, when classics like WIZARD OF OZ, THE ADVENTURES OF ROBIN HOOD, SHE WORE A YELLOW RIBBON, SNOW WHITE and GONE WITH THE WIND were released using the brilliant, deeply-saturated hues of dye-transfer Technicolor. I.B. (or "imbibition") Technicolor prints are becoming increasingly scarce treasures since Technicolor stopped U.S. production of them in 1974. So tonight's print may be a worn print with some scratches and splices, but the color can not be matched even with today's technology. Finally, Ava Gardner is stunningly beautiful in this film and turns in a tender and heartbreaking performance. Last year on a film run I was able to visit the Ava Gardner Museum in Smithfield, North Carloina, and it was amazing. Well worth the 4 ½ hour drive from Culpeper. And Marge Champion is the only one of the stars from this film that is still alive today at age 90. She plays Ellie May Shipley, the dancer in the red & white striped dress & umbrella. Now sit back and enjoy this old fashioned cruise back in time on MGM's Show Boat!