In what is sure to be one of the most intriguing yet bizarre pictures to come about since the work of Fellini, Luis Bunuel directs this dramedy picture about the random incidents and moments that come about in the thought of the mind, yet somehow reflect on the hypocrisies of society and man. Told in a surreal mindset with objects and even animals that somehow come into scene, it is one of those pictures that has many meanings in one. For example, Bunuel directs a sequence in which a young girl, whom her parents are searching for and has been thought to have been kidnapped, is actually right in front of the parents. It makes absolutely no sense, but that is what is so striking about this scene as well as many in that, the girl, who is right in front of their eyes speaking with them, can't be found, thus sending these parents to act on their toes to try and find her. <br /><br />The film regards itself on random episodes that somehow have no connection with each other what so ever. From one scene to the next, the stories are never quite fully developed until the end, kind of like a soap opera. It is one of those types of pictures in which many different characters, with their own dilemmas, are left till the next time around to pick up where they left off in their sequence. The main quest for Bunuel is to question the morality of the characters. Why is it that society considers the idea of going to the restroom as something that has to be done in private. Who created these rules? Who created the rules that man has to be clothed in public, but can do whatever he pleases in private? Is this a moral question as to what is moral or not moral to do, or is this something that society has created as something moral? Bunuel leaves that up to his viewer to identity and question. Shot in a similar fashion as many of the Monty Python pictures, Bunuel's film is definitely more subtle, yet adventurous and hilarious at all means. It shows how surrealism doesn't always have to be dramatic, and he strays away from his start in drama, but achieves a perfect wisdom and understanding through it.