Bunuel is one of my favorite film makers! He is wonderful at making you think of things that seem like everyday habits. He is brilliant in this movie, it has all his normal obsessions as a film maker-necrophilia, sexuality, religion, and the question of freedom. Freedom is honestly a funny subject. Most people in the US would say that they have "freedom". But if they were to look at it under a microscope, and pick it apart, and look at it again they would realize that they really don't have freedom. Because in reality they live under a lot of social and moral rules, that restricts freedom to its very core. This movie, is surrealism down to its very core. Everything is presented in a very realistic way that could quite possibly happen in life, if someone were willing to stand the scrutiny of the greater population. This movie is definitely not normal, it is really a bunch of shorts put together, each transition is just a character followed to another scene and can at times seem confusing; because its right when that short climax's and you are about to find out, and then it switches and you are on to the next one. Most people would probably find this frustrating and rather irritating, but its exactly the point. You don't need a climax, just a point that gets across to the audience that makes us think about it. You can not watch Bunuels' films and think about them logically, his films are made of the logic of dreams. In their own insane way, they make perfect sense. But if you try to analyze it and pick it apart, you will realized that there is nothing that makes sense and as if it almost disintegrates because you are not suppose to analyze it logically. There is a crazy scene where a man goes to sleep and all these crazy things start coming into the bed room, and he looks at the clock and it appears a few hours have gone by. But in reality it is continuous time because there were no edits in that scene, it was shot as one continuous scene. Cinematic time doesn't have to follow real time, and in most films it does not. But when it does, it is for a reason. This movie is a good example of where the directors names start to become adjectives, because the director follows the same theme in their own movies, to the point where they are recognizable and distinguishable, almost expected.