This film is a good example of the actors and their personas being MUCH better than the material they are given! While I have always loved Jean Arthur as well as George Brent in films, they are much too good for this tripe. In particular, Jean tries very hard in this film, but Brent's character is so poorly written and stupid that it drags the entire film to a standstill and looks as if it were written by some inexperienced hacks.<br /><br />The film begins with Jean and Ruth Donnelly at a secretarial school they own. So far, so good--both are wonderful actresses and I had my hopes set VERY high since they were in the film. Then, 'Maizie' (Dorthea Kent) makes an appearance as a ditsy hussy and the film begins to slowly slide downward (she was a truly cardboard and annoying character). So I was THRILLED when the film moved from this school to the offices of a magazine editor played by Brent. Apparently, he was such a demanding boss that secretary after secretary from the school either quit or were fired and so Jean goes to give him a piece of her mind. Instead, she is smitten by him and takes the job herself.<br /><br />At this point, I was intrigued by the film. No major problems. However, when she came to work the next day, Brent's character was such a ridiculous and impossible to believe jerk that the film really began to spiral downward very quickly. Not only was he bombastic and a total health nut, but his having everyone do group exercises (like those done in many Japanese companies, by the way) was poorly executed. What person would order these exercises and then open the window and let all their many, many papers blow across the office and yet continue exercising?! Surely it would take hours to rearrange all the papers--why not stop for five seconds to close the window! This sort of extreme and stupid behavior continued from then on, such as when they went out to eat at a vegetarian restaurant, go for long, long walks in the middle of pouring rain and talk on and on and on (ad nauseum) about "right living and exercise". This was all supposed to be funny, but really came off poorly, as his character seemed more like a silly caricature of a person! Now if this wasn't bad enough, about midway through the film, Maizie re-appeared and then the film's romance between the leads was completely derailed. At this point, Brent ("Mr. Extreme") became such an obnoxious jerk that it was small wonder that Jean didn't just kill him! The bottom line is that it must have taken a lot of work to but Brent and Arthur in a film and have me so bored and annoyed by the whole thing. Considering all the warm and wonderful films these two made, it's amazing that this film was as poor as it was.