This Sukiyaki Western begins in a really bizarre way, more or less like a play with Ringo (Quentin Tarantino in a total tribute to the man with no name, with the poncho included ), a man who knew the story about the Genji and Heike clans or the whites and the reds, a story that happened hundred years ago. Our story takes place in the present of the whites and reds, when their rivalry is still alive. Of course the old mythology is still present and with some flashbacks we are going to see how this two clans ends in the same town that now is almost abandoned and is controlled by the two clans. Here is when the man with no name or the Sanjuro of our story enters, a man that comes from nowhere but seems that he arrives in the right time for the people in the town. Here a family story is also shown, with a couple that when they get married they forget about the clans but now the woman is going to avenge the dead of his husband by joining the clan of the whites.<br /><br />This is like a summary of this picture, listed as a remake of Django that was a remake of Yojimbo. I don't remember when was the first time that I hear something about this film but since then and when I saw the trailer it becomes for me the film to check this year. I mean, it was a Miike film, it has a cameo of Tarantino, it has Japanese actors and actresses talking a strange English and itself was a tribute to the Spaghetti Westerns called, in a really unique way, Sukiyaki Western Django. Knowing all this, it was just an offer I couldn't refuse. Now that I have finally seen this film on the Japanese DVD I can write that Miike has made an extremely enjoyable and entertaining western with a basic and common story but with many unique scenes and a great denouement.<br /><br />Even I really liked the first part of the film, with the story of the town and some memorable scenes (like the "now my name is Henry" or the escape of the gunman), is the final part the best one. Apart of the final confrontation in the snow between the gunman and the white leader, one of my favourites moments of the entire film is the story of the character of Ruriko. She has the classic unbelievable past as a true legend and her story is shown with the style of a QT movie. Of course not a coincidence that Tarantino's character result to be the master of Ruriko and the father of her son, Akira, the mentioned husband who was murdered. In the end we have that this actually was the story of the son of Akira, who actually saw how both of his parents were killed, having in the end gratitude with the gunman and later finding his own way to Italy (a really memorable and even hilarious final detail of the film).<br /><br />Finally, I really liked Sukiyaki Western Django and the entire concept makes that this is a must see film not only for Takashi Miike fans but also for all the people who loves westerns. I'm glad I finally saw this picture, one of the most expected of the last year and now one of my personal favourites. Just hoping that soon we can get the Region 1 DVD with some of the extras that are one the collector's edition.<br /><br />django! Django, have you always been alone? django! Django, have you never loved again? Love will live on, oh oh oh... Life must go on, oh oh oh... For you cannot spend your life regreatting django! Django, you must face another day django! Django, now your love has gone away. Once you loved her, whoa-oh... Now you've lost her, whoa-oh-oh-oh... But you've lost her for-ever, django. When there are clouds in the skies, and they are grey. You may be sad but remember that love will pass away. Oh django! After the showers is the sun. Will be shining...