The film opens to shots of a very fake looking model of a run down abandoned lighthouse on Snape Island, the credits appear over this sequence. Two fishermen, John Gurney (George Coulouris) and his son Hamp (Jack Watson) weave their way through and around the jagged rocks that surround Snape Island. They seem uneasy. Thick fog covers the island. They dock their boat. They begin to search the island. They find a severed hand, and a body in a shallow pool of blood stained water. Inside the lighthouse they find a woman's body and severed head. Next, in an old shed Gurney finds a boy impaled to the wall with a sword. He investigates the shed further and is attacked and killed by a screaming, naked young girl. She runs in to the fog, Hamp knocks her out with an iron bar. Back on the mainland she is taken to hospital for treatment. Her name is Penelope (Candace Glendenning), under hypnosis by a Dr. Simpson (Anthony Valentine), she tells a tale of how her and her friends Mae (Seretta Wilson), Des (Robin Askwith) and Gary (John Hamill) traveled to the island. The police think that she killed her friends, and as far as their concerned the case is closed. Meanwhile the sword that was used to kill Des turns out to be made of solid gold and an extremely valuable Phoenician artifact, four archeologist's are assembled to investigate and perhaps find an ancient burial ground. Adam (Mark Edwards), his ex girlfriend Rose (Jill Haworth), Nora (Anna Palk) and her husband Dan (Derek Folds) hire Hamp and his Nephew Brom (Gary Hamilton) to take them over to the island. A private investigator named Brent (Bryant Haliday) who has been hired by Penolope's parents to try and prove her innocence also travels with them. Once at the island things start to turn sour almost immediately, their radio equipment is broken stopping them from contacting anyone on the mainland, their boat is blown up, and they start to hear strange noises. It starts to become clear that not everyone is telling the truth as to why they are on Snape Island. As the night draws on Snape Islands terrible secrets are revealed, but will anyone survive to tell the tale? Written and directed by Jim O'Connolly I really liked this film. The island and run down lighthouse reek of atmosphere, the creaking sets look great. The script has decent characters, a few good plot twists and turns and it keeps moving at a fair pace. The twist ending is a bit silly and underused, though. There's a great scene with some funny dialogue that's worth a mention, when the group arrive on the island and Brent disappears. Adam questions Brent's motivations and claims he doesn't trust him, Nora buts in to cast further doubt on Brent and says "and he carries a gun" her henpecked husband Dan says "how do you know?", she replies "I noticed the bulge in his pants" to which Dan accusingly say "yes, you would!", great stuff. The murders are quite gory, severed limbs and heads, stabbings and a machete in someones face among others. This film also contains one of the worst special effects I've seen in a long time, as the group travel from the mainland to Snape Island the filmmakers used a boat in a studio and a back projected sea, which looks and feels awful. And the statue of the Phoenician god looks like it was made by a primary school art class. The fashions are also very 70's, silly looking sideburns and flares, the women in this film look attractive though, but I'm not sure that a mini skirt and high heeled boots would be a good choice of footwear considering the rocky and rough terrain. Photography, acting and music are all fine. We get some sex and nudity too, which helps things along nicely. A solid British murder mystery horror film with a great atmosphere that's well worth a look. Overall a lot of fun and certainly recommended.