Last of the Summer Wine is just one of those TV Classics. Though it has to be said, when Compo died, so did the show. <br /><br />Set in Holmfirth (ten mins away from my home) a West Yorkshire village, the show started in 1973, and it was about three old men Compo Simonite (Bill Owen), Norman Clegg (Peter Sallis) and Cyril Blamire (Michael Bates). Compo being scruffy, Clegg being "NORMAL!" and Cyril being appalled by Compo's untidiness. These old men get up to the most strangest of adventures, Compo being sexually obsessed with next door neighbour Nora Batty (Kathy Staff). The trio often went to the café in most episodes, owned by Sid (John Comer) and awful wife Ivy (Jane Freeman). When Michael Bates died, the role of the "third man" went to ex military man Foggy Dewhurst (Brian Wilde). Wilde played the role for ten years, then he left, so next "third man", Seymour Utterthwaite (Michael Aldridge), a mad inventor. Aldridge then left the series, so in 1990, Foggy Dewhurst returned. Wilde played the part until 1997, when he picked up an ailment, so he was forced to retire. This looked like the end of the show, but no. Who was to be the next "third man". Michael Aldridge had died in 1995, so he couldn't take over. It went to ex Policeman Herbert Truelove (Frank Thornton). This went on until Bill Owen died in 1999. That really should have been the end of the show, but the great Roy Clarke (Open All Hours, Keeping up Appearances) made a bad decision, to carry the show on. You can't have Last of the Summer Wine without Compo. Without Compo it's just "Last of the......".<br /><br />Who is my favourite third man. Cyril was excellent, Seymour and Herbert were good, but it has to go to Foggy. The episodes with Brian Wilde in were great.<br /><br />Best Episode: It is one of the two part episodes "The Great Boarding House Bathroom Caper" and "Cheering up Gordon", which is about when Compo, Clegg, Foggy, Sid, Ivy and Gordon(Compo's nephew) go on holiday to Scarbourgh, only to find Nora Batty and husband Wally are staying in the same boarding house.