SOME SPOILERS IN THIS REVIEW.<br /><br />First of all Antonio Banderas does a very fine job in this movie. This screenplay is quite interesting, and when Angelina Jolie leans ahead of the dead body and says "Billy, you really got what you deserved this time", you're thinking "oh, nice plot-twist". From the beginning of the movie until that moment, you are entertained. The problem is that right after that the body "wakes up", and a lot of other, less interesting plot-twists ensue. After a while, you don't really care if Banderas' character is going to die or not because his character has lost all the respect you had of it; and you don't care about Jolie's character anymore either because of what she's tried to do in the film. Such a manipulative and untrustworthy character as her doesn't draw my interest, such a weak and unthinking character as he, doesn't either. Love, to me, isn't a "trait of personality" sufficient enough in a movie character so that I care about it. Therefore, when the only thing that remains in both these characters is the love for each other, and when they have left their jobs, friends, integrity, and should I say, mental sanity (because they become guilty of murder) to stay with each other, you can pretty much guess that from there the movie can become vulgar and raw. Which it does, when Angelina turns into a prostitute again at the end - not a least bit worried by the love she says she carries for "Luis" - and offers herself to 4 or 5 men, while she already has a relationship with Luis and one with her pimp. So in the end I'd say that the film is pretty graceful - gracefully written, acted, shot, though out - from the beginning to "Billy, you got what you deserved", and after that it turns into something else, another type of movie which we could call "the-plot-twist-contest-kind-of-movie". Unfortunately for that "almost good" part of the film, Angelina Jolie was cast as the main actress of "Original Sin". Her blown-out of proportions lips invade the screen from the first seconds of the film, and sadly, her acting is proportionally emphasized. One can regret that she was chosen for the part, and while some may enjoy the view of her naked body, true film lovers will regret the choice of her for this role. Not a whisper from her, not a glance, could give a man goosebumps on his back. Everything from her, up to the register of her voice, is cold and slow. While Miss Jolie was compelling and true in a film like "Girl, Interrupted", she is nothing here but a commercial value on the movie poster. An actress with such passionate eyes as Mia Kirschner's, or with a sin-inspiring body as Sherilyn Fenn's, could have saved the part very easily. But Angelina Jolie looks in no way like the character she portrays - and maybe simply doesn't fit with period dramas. The music plays unnoticed in the action's background - no theme remains in your mind after the end credits, no lyrical moments have flashed your ears - but then again, you didn't come see the film for its music did you? The cinematography comes where needed, as needed, with as little boldness as expected. No image from this film is sheerly "beautiful" or "picturesque", but the sceneries and actions are properly lit and shot with imagination. If you hesitate between watching an old film and this, go for the old film!