I think it was a wonderful film. I remember when I watched this with my sisters, the oldest said to me that Hindustan people aren't gonna like it because the hero is falling in love with a British (white) girl. And it turns out to be true now that I have come to the boards and read almost every review I could find. I think it was a very beautifully acted, scripted and shot film. I have to agree that Luxmi didn't have much to do but dance and show off her pretty face, but after all if you look at the auditioning process, that's what she was hired to do. They needed a dancer and that's what they got. As per her lack of conversations with Kisna, well maybe that was due to the fact that she couldn't because she had devoted herself to worshiping Krishna and he was always a warrior in training. He didn't love her but had to obey his parents when they said "marry her", because of tradition. Since they were kids, he always ignored her why should he talk to her as an adult then? And by the way, if you had an eye for good film-making, you would see that the film is being told from the perspective of Catherine (as things happened and as she imagined other scenarios to have happened) how was she to know if Kisna and Luxmi conversed or not? The film and from the perspective with which it is told, is Catherine's. When you watched 'Titanic', didn't you want to know just a little more about Fabrizio? Didn't you want to a little more about why Guggenheim was aboard the ship with a pregnant teenager? or why explore what was really going on in steerage besides the party? Didn't you want to know Molly a little more? or see other parts of the ship besides first class? I did. But you couldn't because the majority of the film was being told from Rose's (the heroine) perspective. As per the music video you were so fussy about, um, isn't that like in every Bollywood made film? She was dreaming and that was her dream! Hullo!!!! Didn't you see 'Shakti' what sense did the 'Ishq Kameena' music video make other than to say that Shahrukh Khan's character was dreaming? As per the nudity and kissing scenes, I didn't see any. Anyhow, I saw Kisna! and I absolutely loved it! You can only argue about a great film! :-) <br /><br />(Note: my review is in response to the many people who have bashed and continue to bash this intelligent film)