As many have pointed out, it wouldn't seem as though Scorsese would be interested in an 19th century period piece. Yet, I see this film as very similar to "Goodfellas". Each catalogue the lives of people who live by a very strict code of conduct. Each has their particular sense of honor and loyalty. Each have methods of dealing with those who step outside the box. In "Goodfellas" it is guns and fists (or kitchen knives); in "The Age of Innocence" it is gossip and dinner invitations. Both films are rich, elaborate representations of a specific way of life. Scorsese is a filmmaker completely in control of his craft. Every aspect of this film adds an integral part to it. Nothing is incidental or superfluous. The production design in this film is as good as it gets. There is so much detail in every scene. The houses these people live in a founded on the principle of appearances, much like their lives. Everything in them is designed to disguise or distort the truth. I love that fact that the walls are covered, floor to ceiling, with pictures. These people strive to be living portraits, perfect in every visible detail. The music and sound is perfectly suited. There is a bitter loveliness to the score. The classical movement that Scorsese uses is lovely and meaningful. The acting is fantastic. Daniel Day-Lewis is one of the greatest current actors. He gives a very deep and complete performance. I could feel his despair and claustrophobia. Michelle Pieffer is very ironic and cynical. She, like Lewis' character, is a real being trapped in a world of contrived illusion. Ryder's performance is one of the key performances in the film. She is sly and cunning, completely in control of her surroundings. Yet she is able to mask her devilish manipulation as a sweet, shy exterior. I love the narration of the film. It would not have made sense in this film for one of the main characters to narrate, as in "Goodfellas". The world in this film is determined by what other people think and say. So it is apropos to have a exterior commentator. Woodward does fine work as the cynical, satirical commentator, exposing the rotten underbelly of this world, and doing it with wily delight. The cinematography is some of the best I have ever seen. Scorsese never moves his camera without purpose. Each shot is executed for the maximum emotional and cognitive effect. The scenes are edited masterfully. Many times he will cut away right in the middle of a shot to an image that perfectly metaphors the mood and context of the scene. This is one of the most tightly composed films of Scorsese I have seen. I need to watch this film more times. It is very complex. It is a great film.