What a terrible movie, every thing about this movie makes me want to take a shower to wash off the filth! The mistakes in this movie are too much for one to handle. For some reason when they parachute from the Hercules in the beginning and hit water it changes from day to night in under 30 seconds and some how they have rubber dingies with huge boat engines that someone had to have had in they're pocket and blew up, because is isn't visible that anyone had any packages when the dove out from the plane. then when they hit land, for some reason they dress up as hobo's while they're still carrying around M4's and Ak's, while trying to be under cover.This is soon followed by the Rangers wandering around the streets taking they're hobo-taskic costumes off, after they only had them on for about 3 minutes, you can't blame them, this film is such a steaming pile of crap I would've refused to dress like a jack-ass. When Joe-Joe dies, and his eyes are about to be closed, you can see that his eyes are closed to begin with. Matt Macoy then shows off his ability to shoot guns while blinking like a mad man. Matt Macoy dosen't even look like someone who'd be in the military, he looks like that substitute teacher who would always try to control you class and yell ' Guys....Guys...Guys comon'.....Guys....comon'guys...' and all you can do is laugh at him as you jump on you desk and shoot spitballs at him. Then you can see a guy who looks like Mister T on a different vehicle in a scene, then in the next scene he's on a different vehicle and then back on the first vehicle. I also never realized that you can shoot a bazooka at someone 10 feet away and nothing will happen to you, and that some people can throw a grenade and it will blow up instantly with a 30 foot high explosion. Also, its great to have a 9mm pistol that can hold up to 40 rounds and can take out 4 car tires in one shot. And the random goons who storm the office building shooting at papers on desks is pretty cool, if you like random goons who shoot at paper on desks that is. Also if your going to take on the U.S. army, there's no better way to do it with 65 guys that look like they shop at the G.A.P., gather them all up, buy a couple dingies, illegally enter America on these dingies, grab a couple of U-Haul vans and go to some building with a whole bunch of barricades around it and start shooting at desks. The icing on this crap-fest is the highly intense bus chase, because there is nothing more exiting than two buses driving in circles. If you want to waste 90 minutes of your life watch this, but I suggest you do it with some friends, one man can't take on the dark forces of this movie alone.