I've learned not to go into Jeff Lieberman's films with high expectations, as although I liked his latest film; horror-comedy 'Satan's Little Helper', both Squirm and Just Before Dawn did nothing for me, despite high expectations before seeing them. However, Blue Sunshine is surely the director's best film, as it works on both a visceral and psychological level. The film is something of a crossover between the zombie horror subgenre, and a drug fuelled mystery plot. The most effective side of the film, horror-wise, is definitely the idea of silly choices you made as a kid coming back to haunt you as an adult. The plot focuses on a batch of drugs called 'Blue Sunshine', which was distributed around a certain college ten years ago. Now the drug is coming back to haunt the users by way of hair-loss, headaches, nightmares and an insatiable desire to kill people. We follow Jerry Zipkin, a young man that ends up at the centre of the trouble and decides to get the bottom of the mystery, which centres on a politician trying to get elected by way of a publicity drive.<br /><br />I suppose the main reason why I'm not Jeff Lieberman's biggest fan is because his films often lack bite and don't move swiftly enough. This one is no different on that front, except this time; instead of merely focusing on a bunch of worms, or yet another troupe of deformed, deranged backwoods killers; Lieberman has the advantage of an intriguing mystery to base his film on. While it's always obvious where it's going, the director manages to get the audience to care about what's going to happen, and as drugs and their effects are intriguing subjects anyway; there's always enough to keep things ticking over. Lieberman also injects sequences that see various characters lose their hair before trying to kill anyone and everyone in the vicinity, and these too make the final package more intriguing - the sequence that sees a nanny take out her lust for violence out on a couple of irritating kids being the highlight in that respect. Overall, it has to be said that the film isn't perfect - not everything is perfectly judged, and it could have been streamlined better. Furthermore, it ends prematurely and feels a bit lazy; but even so, Blue Sunshine is an excellent little flick and comes highly recommended.