Despite the fact that there was a comparison to "Shaun of the Dead" on the cover of this, I watched it anyway. In fact, the blurb said it was "Better than Shaun of the Dead". Well, since everything these days is "all that and a bag of chips" no matter how bad it is, I was pleasantly surprised that this was as good as it was. But it isn't better than "Shaun of the Dead". Anyway, a small town in Alabama is plagued by Zombies, all of a sudden. Is it the result of a never-shown space craft that kidnapped a man, a woman, and a 1964 and a half Ford Mustang? Well, maybe. Anyway, a video store owner is the first to be visited by a zombie, and since the sheriff is out of town and the deputy went back to the place of some woman he went out with last night (who just happened to live in Panama City, Florida), the town is without an authority figure, so the video store guy plops the corpse in the lobby of the sheriff's office with a post-it note stuck to its forehead (for the sheriff to call him on Monday, of course). A guy from Homeland Security parachutes in to look into this problem, commandeers the car belonging to the sheriff's secretary and begins to investigate. The secretary calls in a former deputy and ex-boyfriend to the investigation and pretty soon the zombies are running amok and they're all trying to hide out away from them. This is all done in a kind of sarcastic and dry humor, so must be seen to be appreciated, really. Best is the woodsman/survivalist guy leaving his young daughters at home and telling the oldest one what to do if anyone comes by the house while he's gone, and walking her through the steps to deal with strangers if they try to get into the house. Later in the movie the front yard is shown and there are dozens of corpses lying there from her blowing them away. This has a rather ambiguous ending though, but other than that it's pretty damn funny and while my review may not necessarily reflect that, that's because it's more one of those movies you have to really see to appreciate. And please do, there aren't that many good low-budget horror/comedies out there these days that are worth seeing.