Back in 1988 I believe it was when I was flipping through channels and I came across USA UP ALL NIGHT on the USA Network. I thought the show was stupid at first but as I started to watch more of it and enjoy the movies that they aired I became hooked on it. I grew up in Decatur, Illinois and we use to pick up a station out of St. Louis, Mo. known as KPLR TV. I use to watch every Saturday night The Three Stooges for two hours. When the local television station removed KPLR TV and went with TBS and TNT I could not watch The Three Stooges on Saturday nights. So then I became hooked on watching Gilbert Godffried and Caroline who was then replaced by Rhonda Shear. I was watching USA UP ALL NIGHT when I noticed Caroline was no longer on the show. I was like what happened to the brunette who hosted the show on Friday nights? I then saw for the first time a beautiful blonde Rhonda Shear hosting on Friday nights. The cheesy B movies were so hilarious to watch on the weekends that when I did not have plans I would be watching the show. I thought at times that Gilbert Godffried got onto my nerves due to his voice but in time I got use to it and loved the show and movies that they aired. I had crushes on a lot of the B movie actresses like Robin Stille who played Babs in Sorority Babes In The Slime Bowl O Rama and Veronica Carothers who was in Witch Academy. There were other actresses that I had crushes on. I miss this show a lot and wished that NBC Network never altered the programming because I think it really ruined the station. The other good memory that I had of USA UP ALL NIGHT was they would air like a special USA UP ALL NIGHT when New Year's Eve would fall on a Friday or Saturday night and it was great to watch. The only way that I would love to see Rhonda Shear and Gilbert Goddfried is if one of the USA UP ALL NIGHT fans had the money to create a station where they only showed B movies on 24/7. That would be awesome you know! I know if I had the money I would create a television station like that but I would make it to where it is not edited in anyway or form. What I mean is that if there is profanity or nudity in the movie it would be aired in its original format at the movie theaters, VHS, or DVD.