Although not quite as good as it's sequel, "Emmanuelle: Joys of A Woman," this film made Dutch actress/model Sylvia Kristel an international star, and changed the way sex was presented in mainstream film forever after. Filmed in exotic Thailand, this is the engaging story of a beautiful young woman's sexual awakening, (or sexual corruption, depending on how you look at it.) Emmanuelle is the 19 year old wife of a wealthy diplomat, a man older than her, and with much more worldly experience than his innocent young bride. Jean is proud to claim that Emmanuelle is not his possession, and that he would like nothing more than for her to be free to explore her own sexuality. However when Emmanuelle falls in love and runs off with a female friend, her husband doesn't deal with it as well as he thought. Emmanuelle, played by the exquisite Sylvia Kristel, is surrounded by people eager to teach her all about eroticism and sensuality. There are the bored, jet set wives who spend their days lounging by the pool in tiny swimsuits and gigantic 70's sunglasses. There is the young girl, Marie-Ange, forever sucking lolli-pops, who teaches Emmanuelle not to be ashamed of masturbation, (in a very hot scene,). There is the bitchy Arianne, forever trying to seduce the younger Emmanuelle. And finally there is the older man, Mario, who is the catalyst, the man who "breaks" Emmanuelle, through a series of sometimes disturbing sexual games, re-inventing her into the sexually liberated woman that we see in the numerous sequels. And for those only familiar with the sequels, this is an important one to see, as this is where Emmanuelle comes into being. It is quite fascinating to watch this character develop from a wide eyed innocent, into a free-thinking sexual being, a woman not afraid to enjoy what men have enjoyed since the dawn of time. The erotic scenes are tasteful, and never go beyond soft-core. "Emmanuelle" is an erotic film with a lot of class and style. There is a particular scene which has been cut from many new DVD releases; a violent rape scene in an opium den. The scene is important, as it is a pivotal scene in Emmanuelle's "education." It is the scene that breaks her, and makes her realize that sex is not something to be feared. In the scene directly following that rape, she is brought to a Thai boxing match, where her body is the prize for the winning fighter. This sexual encounter could have been a rape also, but because she is not afraid, there is no rape, just a consensual act that she derives great pleasure from. Classic 70's theme, more controversial today than it was then. This is a must for fans of cult and erotic films. And if you enjoy this, seek out "Emmanuelle 2;" it's even better!