Yes Boss is one of my favourite Hindi romantic comedies of the 1990s. It is a very charming film and provides a thoroughly pleasurable and enjoyable watch. The film is about Rahul (Khan), an ambitious guy works as an assistant of manipulative, married yet womanising businessman Siddharth (Pancholi). Rahul's loyalty to his boss is unlimited, and he does everything for him, even arranging his appointments with women. Siddharth, in turn, promises to help Rahul become an independent businessman in the corporate world. The real problem comes when Rahul falls for Seema (Chawla), a young model who instantly catches the eye of Siddharth. Knowing that his boss does not even take her seriously and that he is the one who should play the matchmaker in the story, Rahul now has to choose between his dreams of success, and his love for Seema.<br /><br />This concept was very interesting and was brilliantly executed on-screen, with a lot of comedy, romance and even light suspense. But most importantly, it must be noted that it is not only an extremely entertaining flick with many hilarious moments. This movie has soul. The principles presented in this film are strong and remarkable. Rahul wants to become successful because he wants to make his mother happy, and it is evidenced in many sequences through the film. Juhi Chawla's Seema is an aspiring model, yet she comes across as a very simple and gentle young woman who has great values and who, like Rahul, has dreams of finding success. These two characters are extremely well-written and I find them very easy to relate to. The story shows, satirically yet substantially, how often we tend to lose ourselves when we try to make our dreams come true.<br /><br />Shahrukh Khan and Juhi Chawla have a fantastic screen chemistry, and they complement each other very well. They both have something very unique about them, they have wit, happiness, sensitivity and humour. Shahrukh Khan is just extraordinary in this role. I cannot imagine any other actor playing Rahul as naturally and skillfully as he did. Khan always particularly excels in roles like this, where he plays the simple, sensitive, generous, happy and struggling middle-class guy. He is convincing, extremely likable, and seems to be tailor-made for this role. This role reminds me of his unforgettable character in Kundan Shah's masterwork "Kabhi Haan Kabhi Naa". And like the latter, this is one of my favourite performances of Mr. Khan. Beautiful and vulnerable, Juhi Chawla is astonishing and enchanting as Seema. She displays both decisiveness, liveliness and confusion, and shows many sides of her personality, including dreaminess, love, anger and compassion. The growth of her character is believable, and as expected she is splendid in comic sequences.<br /><br />Other cast members are good. Aditya Pancholi manages to be as hateful as his character requires. Kashmira Shah is pretty good in a small role and she is so gorgeous that many would wonder how her husband even thinks of cheating on her. Reema Lagoo and Johnny Lever do their usual stuff. One more aspect that significantly contributes to the film is undoubtedly Jatin-Lalit's soundtrack. Every song stands out. "Ek Din Aap" is very melodious and soothing; "Main Koi Aisa Geet" is very romantic and is brilliantly pictured on Khan and Chawla as he tries to entertain her and finally succeeds; "Choodi Baji Hai Kahi" is joyful and is beautifully shot among some breathtaking landscapes. "Chand Taare" is very pleasant. "Suniye To" and "Jaata Hai Tu Kaha" are very catchy. Yes Boss is one film I can watch again and again and always be excited and entertained. It is a delightful, graceful and memorable picture, and I highly recommend you to see it.