Synopsis - In 2012, the United States economy collapses and life for everyone is not the same. Once a NASCAR champion, Jensen Ames, (Jason Statham), hits rock bottom and spent several years in prison. His life was improving and changing for the better after meeting and marrying Suzy (Janaya Stephens) and having a baby girl. Then the steel mill closes, and he loses his job. But that was not the worst thing to happen to Jenson that day. Suzy is brutally murdered, and he is framed for her murder. Jenson is sent to Terminal Island, the worst and toughest for-profit prison in the country run by Warden Hennessey (Joan Allen). She has created the country's most popular pay-per-view sport, a kill-or-be-killed car race where the inmates race to win their freedom from prison after 5 wins. Every inmate driver is driving a monster car that they built which is loaded with machine guns, missiles, flamethrowers, napalm, and no rules. Warden Hennessey convinces Jensen to secretly take the place of the late 4-time superstar winner, Frankenstein, and wear his metallic mask in the race. If Jensen wins just one race, he can go home to his baby daughter. To get to the finish line, Jensen must kill his competition before they kill him.<br /><br />My Comment - This is kind of a remake inspired by the 1975 movie, "Death Race 2000," in name only. This movie stands on its own. The title "Death Race" tells it all. If you want to see an action pack race where all the drivers go through a gauntlet of death, then this movie is for you. There are some scenes that take the race to the max. If you ever had road rage, I am sure you would love to be driving one of these cars. You can see why the for-profit prison puts on these races, because I calculated that they would make a tremendous profit of $12.5 billion for 3 pay-per-view races. Jason Statham played his usually part as the tough kick-ass Jensen Ames very well. I know everybody will like the ending. (Universal Pictures, 1:39 minutes, Rated R)(8/10)