Ah, Race cars. Gotta love 'em. I'm not a huge fan of NASCAR myself, but hey, whenever I'm over at my Grandpa's house sometimes, I'll sit and watch. It's fun, and it sure is better than being bored when your laptop can't get any internet (which is true, though I'll use their desktop sometimes). Watching those shiny little cars race down the racetrack at full speed sure is exciting, and is an edge-of-the-seat pastime activity, because it sure gets your adrenaline going.And it's also nice to see every single tiny space of the seating capacity packed 'till there's no seats for more people is nice, because it's interesting to see how many people would have spent hard earned cash to see this big event. I've never been to a racing course myself, but I sure as hell hope that next summer I can go to the Edmonton Indy. Sure as hell looks fun. I'll see if I can check it out!<br /><br />But now that I got my NASCAR crap out of my system, racing cars can be fun. But has anyone ever thought of racing cars... while in prison??? With extra guns and shields added to your car, so you can kill any son of a bitch that gets in your way? Well, if anyone has ever wanted to see that, come one come all to DEATH RACE- the new film from Paul W.S. Anderson. That sounds dumb, doesn't it? Well guess what- IT AIN'T DUMB TO ME!!!!!! Having wanted to see it since the trailer showed with Wanted, I was excited when I walked into the theater to see it because it looked fun and cool. I think Jason Statham is a great actor. He has given us performances in some of my favorite movies like Crank, The Transporter Movies, and Ghosts of mars.<br /><br />*WARNING: The following may contain spoilers* Jason Statham (Crank, War, Ghosts of Mars) stars as Jensen, a hard-working construction worker whose company has been shut down for good. When the SWAT team arrive and start forcing people to get out, Jensen comes home to his beautiful wife and baby, and his wife is just making dinner when the baby starts to cry. Jensen goes upstairs to calm the baby down. While this happens, Jensen's wife turns around and sees an assassin behind her. Oh noes! This doesn't sound good! When Jensen comes down the stairs, he finds that his wife has been murdered (and I tell you, it ain't a pretty sight). The assassin is still in the house, to make things even worse, if that's possible. Jensen is knocked out and the police mistake him for the killer, and is sent to prison on charges of murdering his wife. It's sad, isn't it?<br /><br />Prison ain't such a fun place. Especially when getting your food spat in. That is made true when he gets into a fight with some tough guys there, and after that spat, he is sent to Hennessey's (Joan Allen, The Bourne Supremacy) office, where he is told that he has one chance to get out: DEATH RACE, a game in which you win 5 races to get out of prison for your own life. A previous racer, Frankenstein, has played and died. Jensen takes Frankie's place, and joins Coach (Ian McShane, Shrek the Third) and 2 other people, who help him get set up and other stuff. While racing against 14K, Machine Gun Joe (Tyrese Gibson, The Fast and the Furious), he gets a hot chick named Case, (Natalie Martinez, breakout actress) who is his partner, and together they race and try to find a way out of there. However, what Jensen finds out is that the man who killed his wife is in there, and he'll do whatever it takes to get back at him while still in there!<br /><br />Death Race is a fun-filled romp through violence, blood and gore, and so many other things. Jason Statham is great and well cast in the movie, and he is a great actor too. Tyrese Gibson gives a great spin to the film himself. Joan Allen is pretty scary as Hennessey, and even has the movie's best line: "OK, c-cksucker, f-ck with me. See who sh-ts on the sidewalk." How that line was conceived, I don't know. But it sure is a great one liner. The race scenes are edge-of-your-seat fun. Great camera-work, and great explosions as well. The only thing I didn't like was that the movie was too short. It felt like it was only 40 minutes to me really, but otherwise that must be a good sign, because it's a fast paced thrill ride that will have you on the edge of your seat the whole time. If you ever wanted to see cars racing in prison, this is it, baby!