...and being an icon of outrageously glittering entertainment, people resent their idea of a scatterbrain can actually being able to act and speak like normal people. If you stop to think seriously about it, you'll have to admit she's convinced us she's having a wonderful time in her costumes-that-weigh-a-ton numbers, or maybe 2 ounces.....not for a couple of years, but for decades. THAT'S ACTING ! Most pop-artists don't last more than a couple of years. Madonna is successful because she "re-invents" herself, we tell ourselves, but is a DREADFUL actress......well, maybe "Evita". Cher makes no pretense: "this is it, folks." This movie is a good example of just getting lost in one without having to be overly intellectual. The twists in the plot are not earth-moving, but keeps me interested all through it. I, too, wondered why "Michael" was even in the plot, except to make for some scary scenes - worked for me. Also doubted the victim's auto would be left in the parking-lot, intact, for so long.....but, I got over that without having a coronary.<br /><br />The first scene with The Justice giving a "clerk-typist" an envelope with "hope it's sufficient - use it well" should tell you right now there's some hanky-panky going-on. Perhaps we tend to believe that justices in The Supreme Court are angels, and have no human frailties? Hey - they're APPOINTED by presidents, not elected. You think president's don't have agendas ? Wow! how naive you are ! Because the locale is D C, the incentive for ambition should always be suspect - politicians don't REALLY get there by kissing babies.<br /><br />Since "Suspect" has been released, we've had several good movies that depict just how our justice-system often works. With professional "juror-pickers" knowing every time you break wind, it's a toss-up whether the jury-system or a panel of judges should try EVERY case - BUT, both groups are homo-sapiens....lots of room for vulnerability and plain-ole stupidness and discrimination in there. The best way to remain "unjudged" is to be good and not get caught in situations you have to be......<br /><br />Dennis Quaid was great - I'm not familiar with Paul Mahoney, but his role was well-played. Also didn't know who Liam Neeson was at that time, but sure thought he did his role VERY well. The ending scene was surprising to me, because I suspected that OTHER justice-dept guy......<br /><br />I get my VHSs and DVDs from eBay - why pay $10.00 for a one-time shot in the theater, when the same amount lets you watch whenever you want - even if it isn't so often, and only for a change of pace? I'm one of those guys who can enjoy a movie if you give me a running description of the movie while watching it - but, I also like watching alone at home.....the restroom is a LOT closer !!! Lighten-up, Guys - this is a movie to be enjoyed without having to wrack your brains to figure-out. Gets a 9 from me -