I think it is a violent movie and if there is any controversy with this movie it was invented by the media because it makes them look really bad. Hell the end of the movie they blatantly says we need to kill what you represent. I don't know why the media would promote this movie. It would have been dumb to do so. I liked the movie. I thought it was well done. I had to watch it twice to get some of the symbolism and camera work, but I think I get a lot of it. I think the two tools that stone used here was both based on the American attention span. The first was through channel flipping and then projecting multiple things on screen and not being able to focus on just one thing. I think it was clever and it brought into the movie that relationship with media with the viewer and did not just make it a movie where the blame the media. I really thought there was some amazing performances there and I loved Tommy Lee Jones over the top warden. Robert Downy is still up in the air whether I think he is a good actor or not. I need to see more movies of his before I can decide. I think the dialog when they actually stopped to do it very nicely written and well executed. I like how there was no mistaking the heroes and the villains in this. The whole time I was cheering for Mickey and Mallory and I think the director did a good job of making the viewer drawn to them and what they stood for. Il liked the soundtrack a lot and the use of any Rage against the Machine with Leonard Cohen in the same movie is something to be respected. I was reading some of things that IMDb considers mistakes and it was obvious that they did not get it. I am not saying that this is the best movie ever and some of scenes were really well done and as a whole movie experience it was a great vision, but as a whole the movie was a little too over the top. I realize that it was supposed to be, but I think the message would have been a little more effectiveif it was not o over the top. My favorite scene in the whole movie wasthe Roger Dangerfield scene where it was set up like a sitcom. I am all about a message, but for me it was made over and over again and I think it might have been interesting if one could have seen some of the scenes play out in a more realistic fashion.