Oliver Stone's Natural Born Killers is quite possibly the most controversial film ever made. No other has sparked such a debate of violence in cinema, and has caused such a divide between lovers and haters. Many people see it as a poignant social commentary, a wickedly funny and dark outlook at a society gone mad with the idea of celebrity and media obsession. Others see it as depraved celebration of sick violence, and a catalyst for what it seeks to undermine. The film certainly contains scenes of horrific, deplorable, violence, but I would argue that the over-the-top 'cartoon' violence is done to let the audience know that the film is not meant to be taken too seriously. Yes, the message is serious, but we need a bit of black comedy with our satire, otherwise it's just like watching a very boring fact based documentary. The violence (and the whole film) is completely over the top because that is what Stone is telling us; "We have gone too far."<br /><br />Based on a script by Quentin Tarantino, the film follows two young lovers, Mickey and Mallory (Woody Harrelson and Julliette Lewis) as they travel across America killing because it's what they want to do. Hot on their heals is hot-shot cop Jack Scagnetti (Tom Sizemore) who is not quite what you would call an "honest cop". Also along for the ride is sensationalist journalist Wayne Gale (Robert Downey Jr) who hosts (and produces, and directs) the cheesy tabloid show 'American Maniacs'. The first 45 minutes of the film shows us how Mickey and Mallory meet, and shows us their murderous rampage across the country. Like Stanley Kubrick's A Clockwork Orange, the first act of the film is the most shocking part. Most people who have turned off either film has done it by the end of the first act. The two films share many other things in common; at the end of the first act our antagonistic protagonists are caught and sent to prison, they both have "graphic violence" and are hated by politicians and mother's groups, and both have much to say about our society and the mindset of it's outcasts. NBK is very much the A Clockwork Orange of the 90's.<br /><br />Whilst incarcerated Mickey gives an interview to Wayne Gale, and it is here that the film is at its most interesting. He provides a thoughtful, in-depth insight into why he is what he is and does what he does, and the brilliance of the film is that it makes us see his point of view. Of course, this is also where the film makes itself vulnerable to attack because anybody who goes out and murders somebody, and happens to have a copy of the DVD, can be said to have been "warped" by the films 'pro-violence' message. The film is about as pro-violent as American History X is pro-Nazi, but unfortunately far too many people are unable to watch a film with an open mind, or a view to learn something new, and so the message goes over their heads. *SPOILER* If NBK had ended with Mickey and Mallory being killed by a relative of one of their victims then I'm sure everybody would applaud it's "profound message of evil never triumphs". Instead, Mickey and Mallory escape from prison and are last seen walking into the sunset, so therefore Stone must like killers because he lets them live. Right? *END SPOILERS* <br /><br />How can you talk about NBK and not mention the fabulous look of the film? Shot on everything from grainy black & white 8mm to glossy Super 35mm, and using in excess of 2500 edits, the film is a visual feast. Stone uses 'vertical cutting' to show what a character is reading into a situation, rear projection to show what is influencing their thoughts and decisions and many other great techniques which make NBK the most unique film I have ever seen. Unlike Tony Scott's cinematic turd Domino the style is not done merely for the sake of it, to "look cool", it is done to place us amongst the chaos of the film. Plus, it looks really friggin' cool! I must also mention that all of the performances are top-notch. Harrelson and Lewis fit their roles perfectly and really convey that these two people love each other. Sizemore also gives a solid performance, as does Downey Jr, who is absolutely bloody hilarious! The best of the bunch, however, has got to be Tommy Lee Jones as the prison warden Dwight McClusky. He oozes with creepy redneck sliminess, but is also incredibly funny and charismatic.<br /><br />NBK is without a doubt one of the finest pieces of art ever produced. For years to come it will be talked about, and I'm sure it won't be long until another murder is blamed on it. NBK sets out to show us that we are far too obsessed with fame and celebrity, and in my opinion it does just that. The media makes celebrities out of criminals whilst people who deserve recognition go unnoticed. How many of the 9/11 victims can you name? How many doctors who have saved hundreds of lives can you name? How many of the Columbine victims can you name? Can you name the killers? Probably. THAT is what NBK is all about, and that is what it seeks to discourage.