Iron Jawed Angels is a true story based on the life of radical suffragists who played a key role in winning the federal constitutional amendment that guaranteed women the right to vote. The film focuses on the years between 1912 and 1920, the last eight in a seventy-two year fight for women to claim the right to vote. Central to the story is Alice Stokes Paul (Hilary Swank,) feminist, suffragist and gifted political strategist, and her co-leader, Lucy Burns (Frances O'Connor.) The story of Paul and Burns, and the group of young, radical women who dedicate their lives to securing women the right to vote is, until now, one of the great-untold American stories of the century. I was moved by the drive of these brave women, inspired by their courage in the face of hatred and cruelty, compelled to join the ranks of these dauntless women whose influence helped give us the right to have a voice in our own government. Iron Jawed Angels is an exceptional film because it tells an important story in a fresh, engaging way. <br /><br />Iron Jawed Angels has all of the elements of the best human drama: loyalty, disagreements, violence, personal sacrifice, and yes, triumph. It faithfully recreates the historical events that led to the ratification of the Nineteenth Constitutional Amendment, such as the memorable 1913 Suffrage Parade that was held during President Woodrow Wilson's inauguration, the nonviolent protest at the gates of the White House, arrests on trumped up charges that led to incarceration in a horrific work camp, and the violent force-feedings in response to the imprisoned suffragist's hunger strike. <br /><br />Iron Jawed Angels is a film that delivers a message with well-written story lines, beautiful cinematography and intelligent, witty characterization. The acting in Iron Jawed Angels is superb. Hilary Swank gives a stunning, powerful performance as Alice Paul, the highly educated, brilliant political strategist with a Quaker background and fiery tongue. Frances O'Connor, who holds her ground next to the indomitable Alice, plays her cohort, Lucy Burns, equally well. The beautiful and articulate lawyer, Inez Milholland, played by Julia Ormond, delivers one of the most memorable scenes in the movie when she grandly leads the 1913 parade riding a regal white horse, holding herself with pride and dignity, wearing a resplendent white robe and magnificent angel wings suitably used to symbolize justice and liberty. <br /><br />Anjelica Huston gives a phenomenal performance as the politically conservative, high-powered Carrie Chapman Catt; Huston won the 2004 Golden Globe Award as Best Actress for a Supporting Role in a TV Movie for her role. Catt was the leader of the "old guard," who disliked Paul and Burns' radical notions and methods. Even though the newcomers were initially half-heartedly allowed to participate in the long-standing National American Women's Suffrage Association, eventually they were forced out on their own. They then formed their own political platform, the National Women's Party. One of the triumphs of the film is how Catt rises above her dislike for Paul, wields her political clout and influences the fate of the imprisoned suffragists. As allies, they work together to defeat their opponents and win the right to vote. <br /><br />Contrary to several writers who have criticized the mixture of modern and period music in this film, I enjoyed the musical soundtrack to this film. The majestic sound of the music and striking beats combined with lyrical vocals in Lauryn Hill's "Everything is Everything" track perfectly complemented the parade scene. Hill's lyrics uncannily replicate the film's theme; Hill herself is an outspoken advocate working for social justice in our own time; her music and reputation add credibility to the inherent message of the film. <br /><br />I didn't know the remarkable story behind the ratification of the Nineteenth Amendment before I viewed "Iron Jawed Angels." The determined women who challenged the conventional thinking of the time inspired me. I easily identified with the complex, historical figures of the struggle behind the fight to win women's right to vote; I wanted to join their movement; I wanted to have a part in their crusade. The movie so moved me that I wanted to invite my sister and all of my women friends to share this amazing story with me, so that they, too, could experience the message behind the movie: no matter how entrenched or static a situation is, things can be changed with persistence and will; we really can make a difference. <br /><br />Iron Jawed Angels tells a story that has largely been forgotten, save a few sentences in our high school history books. The story occurs at the birth of a century, the dawn of a new world. And yet, women still did not have the right to vote. Unbelievably, it took women being jailed in conditions that today would be in violation of our civil rights liberties and worldwide United Nations Human Right's Treaties to overcome the unjust laws of the time. These extraordinary women devoted their entire lives to the cause of women's rights. They were beaten up, jailed, insulted, spit on, force-fed through tubes shoved down their throats and noses, and even died, in order to win the right to vote. <br /><br />The voting privilege is distressingly taken for granted by many American citizens today. However, it was not automatically extended to all citizens in our democratic society; it was a right that required a civil war for some and, for women, it required a brave group of iron jawed angels that put their lives on the line and made history. It should not be overlooked that in many other parts of the world it is a right that is still denied; for too many women it remains a distant hope. It is therefore incumbent upon those of us who already enjoy this right to exercise it faithfully. That will be a tribute to the incredible women who fought for the right to vote in America.