In 1912, Alice Paul (Hillary Swank) and her close friend, Lucy (Frances O'Connor) have one matter on their minds, getting American women the right to vote. They are very familiar with the famous suffragettes who came before them, including Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton. Nevertheless, being younger than some of the feminists of their day, they have some new ideas and strategies. Their views do not often sit well with the older ladies of the struggle, including Carrie Chapman Catt (Anjelica Huston). When Alice finds it impossible to work out their disagreements, she starts her own group. Even a handsome newspaperman (Patrick Dempsey) can not sway her from her focus, although they remain friends. From staging D.C. parades to picketing the Wilson White House to being thrown in jail on false charges, Alice and Lucy mean business. Will they see their fondest dream come true? All women in American owe a great debt of thanks to these two brave women and their fellow suffragettes, one that can never be repaid, and this wonderful film tells their story with care and beauty. First, the cast is superlative, with Swank and O'Connor leading the way, followed by nice turns by such actresses as Vera Farminga, Julia Ormond, Molly Parker, Huston, and Brooke Smith, among others. No, the viewer is not always comfortable with Swank's character, Alice Paul, who is so committed to her cause that she shuts everything else out of her life. By contrast, O'Connor is a marvel, for her character is likewise dedicated but filled with regret for the husband and children she always wanted. The costumes are lovely and true, the scenery is beautiful and the entire production breathes classiness. Yet, it is the story that is a heart grabber and should send everyone to the library to learn more about the suffragettes trials. Wilson, a respected president in the annals of history, comes off as a stubborn man who resents the ladies' picket lines and allows them to be imprisoned, even when he knows they have not broken any laws. Once in jail, the conditions are dire and horrifying, to say the least, and any woman might wonder if she could endure the same for the right to vote. In such light, this wonderful movie is a must see for women everywhere and their partners. It was, after all, less than one hundred years ago that American women finally got that basic human right, suffrage, and, after a viewing, no female will ever take this matter nonchalantly again.