Duccio Tessari's "L'Uomo Senza Memoria" (aka. "The Man Without Memory" / "Puzzle") of 1974 is not (yet) a very well-known Giallo, but it sure is a great film worthy of more attention. For the great Giallo-genre, especially in the mid-70s, this film bares very few murders and little bloodshed, but that does in no way lessen its value as a terrific Thriller that no Giallo-buff, or even suspense-fan in general should miss. Especially to those who set the main value on the mystery aspect of a Giallo, this is an essential film. The title "The Man Without Memory" fits the film perfectly, of course, as the central character (superbly played by Luc Merenda) is a man who suffers from amnesia. Yet the aka. title "Puzzle" fits the film just as well, as this is indeed a highly compelling and intelligent puzzle, which is capable of stunning the viewer from the first minute.<br /><br />Edward (Luc Merenda) has lost his memory. Without knowing why, he is being followed by people, who insist that he owes them something. He finds out that he has a wife in Italy, who turns out to be the beautiful Sara (Senta Berger). This is only the first step into his mysterious past, however... I do not want to give away too much about the plot, since this is an ingenious puzzle that all fellow Giallo-buffs should experience entirely for themselves. The film is excellent and stunning in its mystery and suspense, beautifully shot and accompanied by a great score. The performances are superb. Luc Merenda, star of Poliziotteschi such as "The Violent Professionals", was the perfect choice to play the lead here, and beautiful Senta Berger is sexy, lovable and great in the role of Sara. The cast furthermore includes the wonderful Anita Strindberg, who was part of many memorable Gialli, such as "The Scorpion's Tail", "Lizard In A Woman's Skin", "Who Saw Her Die", and, most notably in Sergio Martino's Poe-inspired masterpiece "Your Vice Is A Locked Room And Only I Have The Key", which is a strong contender for my personal all-time favorite Giallo. Strindberg only has a small role here, but she is doubtlessly great in it. The cast furthermore includes Umberto Orsini ("Violent City") and Genre-regular Bruno Corazzari ("The Strange Vice Of Mrs Wardh", "Seven Blood-Stained Orchids",...). "The Man Without Memory" is a very intelligent and enthralling film that deserves more attention, and that no Giallo-lover can afford to miss! Highly recommended!