<br /><br />This is probably one of the best sonic games I have ever played! I can tell you right now that this unlike almost all Sonic The Hedgehog games for various reasons. First off, this game was not really meant for kids for various different reasons. For starters, some of the comments made in the game are not ones I would think younger kids would understand. Also, the plot was very complicated for younger kids. Another thing, Rouge The Bat tore away from all Sonic games, making it very obvious that the creator had intended it to be for fans now who were fans from the very begining. Some of the biggest fans are from 15-25, so that's where I'm guessing Rouge came from. Rouge is a sexy, sassy. .Bat that uses looks and more to get her way. Not only that, but a costume she aquires later is a very. .SHOWY costume! I also must say that the ending game was most likely NOT meant for kids. Let's put it this way, so I don't give anything away, Dr. Gerald Robotnik makes his little speech, then people in the background start screaming things that would familiar to older audiences.<br /><br />Anyway, enough with why the game was not really meant for kids. Let's move onto the good additions to the game! I must say, I was really impressed with the graphics in this game! Everything was full of detail, down the very last leaf on a tree! In fact, most of the game was almost in completely rendered 3-D. Unfortunately, there weren't as many cool cut scenes like Sonic Adventure had with perfect, realistic animation. Another great thing about this game was the music. Every characters level had the same type of music, that was VERY well organized. Sonic gets regular rock music, Tails gets some sort of hippie music, Knuckles gets really great hip hop music, Shadow gets total techno feed music, Eggman gets techno mixed in with heavy metal, and Rouge gets very catchy jazz music. I must say that Rouge's music was so catchy that I walk around humming her music. Another great addition to this game were the characters Shadow and Rouge, which were awesome characters! I really hope that Shadow ends up getting his own video game series after this. Rouge was great, but she could have been better. Sure she could hunt better than Knuckles and run faster than Sonic, but being a bat, she still couldn't walk on ceilings or use any supersonic waves that bats would use. Plus, a glitch about the game, is that she flies in cut scenes, yet she can only glide when you play as her. However, she WAS a great addition to the game, and I would love to see her come back!<br /><br />Well, in general, Sonic Adventure 2 is probably one of the best games I have played in a long time, and I look forward to Sonic Adventure 3 on the GameCube by Nintendo!