"Little Witches" is one of those silly, sloppy, T&A-loaded Straight-To-Video "B" Horror flicks that you just gotsta luv!! :=8) It sports poor fx, hilarious dialogue, inane black magic mumbo-jumbo, loads of "B" actors you've seen in udder flicks, and copious amounts of nekkid catholic school girl flesh. It's one of those kinda moovies that the herd luvs to pop into the vcr late at night, with a greasy pizza and a 6-pack of moo juice, knowing full well that their brains will not be required for the next 90 minutes or so. In which a gaggle of giggling school girls, left to rot over Easter break at their Catholic boarding school, discover the "black arts", and summon the Big Evil Dude to do the nekkid cow boogie. ;=8) Faith(Mimi Reichmeister) is the sweet, smart, virginal, heroic snugglebunny who just wants to do the right thing; naturally, she saves the day when the Giant Evil Scaly 3-Mouthed Demon Thing comes for munchies. Jamie(Sheeri Rappaport, appearances in "NYPD Blue" & "Xena" tv shows)is the naughty, abused bad girl, who spends moost of the film without clothing, and who gets dragged to hell for being a slutty, power-hungry b**ch. The sharp-eyed will spot Clea DuVall(Invisible Girl in tv's "Buffy:The Vampire Slayer", "The Faculty")in the gaggle, who gets skewered by a scaly demon horn. Snuggly "B" starlet Jennifer Rubin("A Nightmare on Elm Street 3", "The Crush", "Screamers")plays a nun(yeah, right...)who is also the Guardian of the Book That Summons the Giant Evil Scaly 3-Mouthed Demon Thing, and also sports a nifty tattoo! Jack Nance(tv's "Twin Peaks", "Love and a .45") plays a soon-to-be sliced up priest, and good ol' Zelda Rubenstein ("Poltergeist") plays a tiny poisoned nun with a red splotch on her head. The herd howled over such cheesy dialogue as: "Do you have any sins of a non-dietary nature?", and "This is an ancient book of black spells - AND IT REALLY WORKS!". If silly "B" fun, coupled with oodles of nekkid cuties, is what yer after, then the MooCow is here to tell ya this is yer twisted cup of java. Haphazardly directed by Jane Simpson (Simpson, eh...), and sporting moore gaping plot holes than Kathy Lee Gifford's reputation, "Little Witches" is no "Sixth Sense", but believe me you won't mind. The MooCow says order up a double pepperoni & fire up the vcr for "Little Witches", and let the silliness roll! ;=8)<br /><br />