Last week, I was flipping around on cable, and I ran across the opening credits of a movie called Little Witches. I left it on and was greatly rewarded. This movie has a brilliant plot, top-notch dialogue, and great acting. And by "plot," "dialogue," and "acting," I mean, "nudity!" This movie is about a group of Catholic schoolgirls who throughout the movie get naked and summon the devil, but not always at the same time. The four main characters in the movie embody the four achetypes that are represented in literary works of this nature, The Bad Girl (who doubles as The Slutty Girl), The Good Girl, The Black Girl, and The Fat Girl (Yes, she gets naked too, but unfortunately, she and The Black Girl don't get as much nude screen time as The Bad Girl.) Each of these characters develops as the movie goes on. The Bad Girl gets better at Latin, the Fat Girl takes off her glasses after becoming evil, the Good Girl becomes less mischievious, and the Black Girl... Well, the Black Girl is really a third wheel. Another character in this movie is The Good Guy. He is a construction worker who establishes that he is good early in the movie by saying to his fellow construction workers, "Okay guys, show's over," and turning down the music on their boom box after they all watched The Bad Girl strip for them by her window for a few minutes. An interesting quirk of the Good Guy is that, not unlike the Amazing Hulk, his strength comes and goes. This is revealed in a certain scene when The Good Guy can't summon the strength to the get out from under the naked Bad Girl until his girlfriend (the Good Girl) walks into the room. Well, all of these characters's personal dilemmas intertwine until the movie reaches it's climactic finale in which the naked Fat Girl is stabbed by an unidentified appendage of the demon that the girls summoned. This movie was very good, but it could have been better if it were not for a few glaring flaws. One is the title of the movie. The movie actually has nothing to do with real witchcraft, and perpetuates the stereotype that witches are brides of Satan, rather than the nature-worshipers they actually are. Another glaring flaw is that although the nudity was gratuitous, it should have been more gratuitous. There were some scenes with a lot of tension that did not lead up to nudity. And the very HOT Black Girl was underused. She was shown nude briefly, only a few times. Same with the Fat Girl. But I do give credit to the movie for having the guts to have an overweight semi-main character (even though she was very stereotyped), and especially that they showed her naked. It was nice to see a naked girl who wasn't an ultra-skinny model type. But the biggest drawback of the movie was that there was no lesbian-erotiscism! Not even any implied lesbian-eroticism. In conclusion, although this movie has it's flaws, it's very sexy and definately worth a rent. It's also fun to make fun of, MST3K-style.