He was a quiet man features Bob Maconel (Christian Slater) who is a displeased man working in an office with orthodox 9-5 routine. He is a very lonely individual who gets bullied by his superiors and ignored by his co-workers; he is nerdy looking, and seems to have no charisma which makes him an instant easy target. This leaves him with no options to allow orders from people and let them treat him like a servant. This has brought him to a breaking point where he feels his life is no longer worth living and attempts a killing spree. <br /><br />However, a fellow co-worker named Coleman beats Maconel to the 'job' whilst going through a similar experience of his own. This occurrence leaves Maconel rising from a zero to a hero. Maconel manages to prevent Vanessa (Elisha Cuthbert) from dying and shooting killer Coleman! Vanessa is left almost completely paralysed and can no longer maintain her job. The job is appointed to Maconel by Gene Shelby (William H. Macy). Maconel receives Vanessa's company car and an office with a view – something he's always wanted. People treat him differently after the incident and take interest in his life, as he gets invited to parties and the opportunity to share his ideas with the company.<br /><br />Initially, Vanessa was angry with Maconel for saving her life – as she felt she would be better off dead than being disabled. Maconel has fantasised being with Vanessa for years and still likes her the same way despite her condition. This brings Maconel and Vanessa together as they form a relationship. All of this seems like a perfect life but it leaves Maconel completely overwhelmed and he can't handle the situation he's in. Maconel starts to question himself and he finds himself in a situations that is changing for the worst. <br /><br />The music used in this film works very appropriately and is very well timed. I like it when I'm not distracted by a popular song in a film and "He was a Quiet Man" doesn't suffer from uniqueness. There is a few times where Maconel narrates, and I have to admit Christian Slater's narration is pretty good. He gives a credible performance as he does with any film role that he portrays.<br /><br />My only one complaint was the running time at 95 minutes. I finished the film quite simply wanting more and the plot twist towards the end of the film seemed a little unoriginal and predicable. The film was written and directed by Frank A. Cappello. I have always respected authors who direct their own films. I suppose he was pensiveness of how he wanted the film to look and didn't want any other director to change that from him. This film had a very limited budget, approximately in the region of $600,000. There was no studio behind it, making it a strictly independent production. It had theatre showings in a few cities for one week each and the main release was on DVD in USA on January 15, 2008.<br /><br />So basically, the film is well worth watching but it suffers towards the end – I felt it was capable of a lot more as there isn't a moment of screen wasted time. It is an enjoyable film to watch - but you need to pay attention to understand the plot twists.