When I was looking through the collection at Hollywood Video looking for a rental, I came across He Was a Quiet Man, I'm not sure why, but I picked up the film and just read what it was about. I had never heard of it before, but I enjoy Christian Slater, Elisha Cuthbert, and William H. Macy on screen, they're great actors and then I read on the summary "Office Space meets Taxi Driver", lol, I had to see this movie. So I watched it last night, I honestly have to say that I am taken back, this was not only a good movie, but had such knock out performances! Christian Slater, I always liked him in movies, but this performance, I am going to be honest, has to be the best of his career, I barely even recognized him, he was incredible. He makes Bob Maconel, his character, so sympathetic and understandable, that he holds the entire movie so well with class.<br /><br />Bob Maconel is your average working American citizen, unfortunately, he doesn't have the best looks, he lives alone(without the companionship of his talking gold fish), he's taken advantage of at work, and also has a huge crush on a beautiful co-worker, Venessa Parks who would never give him the time of day. Bob has just had it, one day he has a gun and just wants to go crazy in the office and shoot everyone, but guess what? Someone beat him to it, Bob shoots the guy, making him look like a hero, he also sees Venessa on the floor and saves her life, but she unfortunately is paralyzed. They start an interesting relationship, one that could make or break Bob's sanity once and for all.<br /><br />I seriously recommend this movie, it's definitely one of the most interesting films I have seen this year. The way the film was made and edited, at times was a little off, but seriously, it's the awesome performances that really make the film. Christian and Elisha really become their roles and are just incredible together, the scene where Venessa is paralyzed and wants to "please" Bob, just his reaction and her tear, the scene was so heart breaking, but touching. You'll have to see what I mean, but trust me, there are many great scenes in He Was A Quiet Man, this is a must see film.<br /><br />9/10