There isn't a person I know who would watch this movie more than once if even that. But I will and don't ask me why. It just draws me in with the sights and sounds and I want to see what appears on the screen next. I also want to know what it all means. I love a challenge. This movie is filet mignon to the greaseburger that most finds it's way on movie screens today. Yet it doesn't make "sense." Or does it? Would Lynch make a movie that cannot be unraveled? If so this might be the first. I mostly unraveled all the rest I've seen, Eraserhead, Blue Velvet, Lost Highway, and Mulholland Dr, each in two viewings. Though Blue Velvet really never presented many difficulties. Inland Empire though, sheesh, I still have no clue what many of these scenes mean. The rabbits for example, I have no idea. But I see a woman getting lost in her acting, meshing it with reality. It is a story of utter depravity, betrayal, revenge, and redemption, and the actress from the original Polish movie runs parallel to Nikki Grace, played by Dern. In the end Grace hits rock bottom dying among the street people of Hollywood Blvd. "No more blue tomorrows" the street person told her. Ahh Grace's line from earlier, "only blue tomorrows," from the movie script as she resisted the prospects of having an affair. But the Hollywood street scene was just acting. "Cut...marvelous Nikki!" the director says but she still hasn't woken up. Then she walks in a theater and sees herself on the screen. Huh? It's just acting and this is the beginning of her coming out. Then the psychologist walks up the stairs, Dern follows and goes through a green hallway where we see door #47. That number was a cue from earlier. I'll try to catch it next time. Grace embraces and kisses the Polish actress then disappears. Then like Blue Velvet, and unlike Mulholland Dr, we have a happy ending. The Polish actress reunites with her family and Grace sits smiling on the couch in the mansion where the movie started. The nightmare is over. As the credits roll the one legged woman looks up and says, "sweet" and the players dance to a Gospel like song of being saved from a turbulent river. Not half bad for a general understanding but if you are like me, you want more. I'm sure much more is there but that means watching it again and this is a long one.