I have to say I am slightly puzzled as to why 'Stage Fright' is not generally considered one of Alfred Hitchcocks' finest works, as on every viewing I remain glued to the screen right the way from beginning to end.<br /><br />The film opens with a theatre curtain rising and we are immediately introduced to a postwar London still containing the ruins of World War Two. Eve (Jane Wyman), a Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts actress is driving Johnny (Richard Todd) who has run from away from the scene of the murder of the husband of Charlotte (Marlene Dietrich), a major star of the theatre. "Any sign of the police?" she asks him as they escape. "Eve, do you hate me now you know about me and Charlotte?" Johnny asks her. Eve regards Charlotte as "cold and calculating", and is convinced that she is using Johnnys' affections towards her to get him convicted of the murder. From here until very late in the picture, Eve does all she can to prevent Johnny from being convicted of a crime she is sure Charlotte has committed.<br /><br />As the film progresses there are plenty of indications as to who might have done the crime, but it takes a dramatic twist towards the end of the picture for us to discover who out of Johnny and Charlotte is actually guilty. The conclusion very much goes against what we are led to believe for much of the films' running time due to an early flashback, something which Hitchcock apparently regretted. In my opinion this makes the movie hugely interesting and somewhat unique.<br /><br />The other reasons for me liking this picture are plenty. The attractive Jane Wyman as Eve is outstanding in the lead role, whilst Marlene Dietrich steals much of the limelight, notably when she performs the song 'The Laziest Girl in Town' surrounded by smartly dressed men. Alistair Sim is very charismatic as Eves' father who goes out of his way to try to get Charlotte to confess, even using a doll with a bloodstained dress to unnerve her whilst she performs at a wet garden party ("What vermin some vermin are" Charlotte remarks). Charlotte suffers from 'Stage Fright' in front of an audience when she is presented with the doll, and is a fascinating character who uses her acting skills to get herself out of tricky situations in real life. Eve turns the tables on Charlotte by posing as her dresser and when she reveals her true identity a horrified Charlotte tells her, "I'll give you anything if you keep me out of this." The film harks back to Hitchcocks' origins as it contains many quintessentially British characters, notably Eves' parents and Charlottes' maid, and it is set in London which is where many of his early British films from the 1920's and 1930's took place. One notably British location is a pub where Eve meets the police detective Smith (Michael Wilding), who takes quite a fancy to her.<br /><br />Overall, I think this is an excellent picture and very worthwhile viewing for all Hitchcock fans.