Gene Tartakovsky's style with drawing characters had me a little apprehensive from the outset to watch the series he had directed; the characters on the surface have the immediate appearance of not looking very rough-edged and more appropriate for a kids show. Upon finally giving in and watching the series, it becomes all the more apparent that this an assumption that's not totally true. The style actually has a little more than a bit to owe as part of a tradition in the small but captivating realm of Star Wars animation (most specifically from the Boba Fett segment from the much maligned Star Wars Holiday Special), and so Clone Wars can be seen as a kind of logical continuation of back-story getting a good hit of invention and visual surprise. Here we're submerged into the details of the clone wars, that time alluded to in the original trilogy and basically is the filler between episode 2 and 3. Characteristics remains pretty similar (Anakin's arrogance, Obi-Wan's total control and lack of ego, Count Dookoo's duplicitous nature, Yoda's total wisdom, and, elaborated on, Mace Windu's total 'bad-ass' appeal), but what's changed slightly is that the use of animation- which is already bountiful in the prequels as most of what's usually around the actors to one degree or another- is put to a potential that makes things move even faster, allowing for more imagination to flourish.<br /><br />One can't help but start laughing at times with how it's almost too hyperactive, like a big battle scene where Mace Windu faces off against an entire army of destroyers. There is a feeling that things are all too closely aligned with Cartoon Network animation, which isn't a detraction per-say as much as it is something that has to be taken with a grain of salt. This isn't Heavy Metal we're dealing with here. At the same time, the battles, in space with the many, many, many ships, and the awesomely dynamic light-saber duels, get an extra boost from their being no limits to what can be done with the characters, masters of the light and dark sides of the force, facing off in the height of Jedi folklore (we even see what happens during a battle in rain). There's even a creative tinge of anime- maybe more than a tinge sometimes depending on the movement of a sequence- in the proceedings. History and lineage, albeit par for the course in pleasing the "geeks" with Star Wars, is also paid good attention to, creating some cool new characters (a dastard apprentice of the Sith as one of Anakin's fiercest foes also makes a mark of character development), and some recognizable ones (General Grievous's story is a little amusing and also even more dangerous than seen in the third film).<br /><br />So, how does it play out? It may depend on what the attitude is towards the animation, but if one gets into it long enough, its brief appeal as a short-lived series can be appreciated even by casual fans of the franchise. It's fun and sometimes thrilling, and the work that's done calls for better things to come in the animated SW world.