The rating may be off a little bit..due to my love of this cheezy horror movie! I saw this movie when I was little,my mom didn't approve of an 8 year old watching R-rated movies, but my father didn't care ha-HA! (the mom was working midnights then). Realizing later (years later, more like 14 years later)that this movie has Absolutely NOTHING to do with the first Beyond the Door movie. The plot of the movie is based around a girl named Beverly, who has caught the eye of the Prince Darkness. She has the mark of the devil on her stomach, that the audience can clearly see the mark as the head of Satan, but Beverly just thinks it's a birth mark. She is apart of this European culture class at her school, and her professor is taking the class to some Slavic-type foreign country. The peasants of this county are ridiculously portrayed: poor,pale, invalids that just shuffle around, stare and clap bricks together (the clapping of bricks is towards the end of the movie as the train is finally derailed and they are coming to get Beverly to prepare her for "her wedding"). The rest of the movie consists of crazy train rides, multiple derailments - with "superior special effects" by that I mean all the derailing shots consist of a model train running on a country-side model surface; several decapitations - all of which are poorly made dummy heads. Eventually after all her classmates are dead, she is left in the train with the mysterious flute playing monk (which he cannot play - his finger and breathing rhythms don't match up with the flute music), whom "helps her lose her virginity" in order to escape the Prince of Darkness' want of her - the girl has to be a virgin in order for her to be 'his'. The country peasants come and get her and is placed on the alter for the "virgin test" from a blind, grossly looking old woman that puts her hand between Beverly's legs to check her purity. Finding out that she is impure, all the peasants and Satan (whom was rising from the earth at that time) are burned and explode. Beverly is the only left alive to return home. I have been looking for years for this movie, when I did find it, I almost peed my pants (I didn't though, just using as a reference for my extreme excitement). To me, this is one of the greatest cheezy horror movies of my childhood. You obviously don't have to take my word for, you may agree or totally disagree with me. All in all, I am SOOO GLAD that I found this movie, and I will always love it. Just give it a try and see what you think.