Comedian Adam Sandler's last theatrical release "I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry" served as a loud and proud plea for tolerance of the gay community. The former "Saturday Night Live" funnyman's new movie "You Don't Mess with the Zohan" (*** out of ****) constitutes his plea for tolerance toward Israeli and Palestinian immigrants in America. These unfortunate people are often punished in America for the crimes of their counterparts in the war-ravaged Middle East. Although "Zohan" advocates a lofty cause, Sandler doesn't let his political agenda overshadow his usual crude, below-the-belt, juvenile shenanigans that rely on obscene bodily functions, promiscuous sex, and far-fetched harebrained idiocy. Indeed, the hysterical horseplay that Sandler and company revel in may distract you from the plight of these uprooted, misplaced misfits that had fled to Uncle Sam's shores because they believe America is a Utopia. Interestingly, Sandler plays a Jewish counterterrorist agent of the Mossad, Israel's secret police, with a hopelessly corny accent. Zohan's exploits appear to foreshadow Will Smith's upcoming "Hancock." Zohan is the best Jewish secret agent in the whole wide world. He is literally indestructible. He catches bullets in his nose. He can swim faster than a dolphin, and a razor-toothed piranha fish in his bikini swim trunks amuses him.<br /><br />Zohan (Adam Sandler) is cooking fish at the beach when his superiors interrupt his vacation and inform him that the dreaded Arab terrorist, the Phantom (John Turturro of "Transformers"), is up to his old tricks again. Naturally, Zohan is furious! Actually, Zohan captured the Phantom three months ago, but the politicians have exchanged the Phantom for political prisoners. Now, Zohan must nab his nemesis again! The Phantom and Zohan tangle in a spectacular fight in the sea and Zohan doesn't survive. In reality, Zohan deliberately fakes his death so that he can immigrate to New York City and realize his life-long dream of cutting hair for Paul Mitchell. Zohan gives himself an obsolete Frankie Avalon haircut, trims his beard, and smuggles himself onto a plane bound for America. If what happens before his flight seems outlandish, once he is on the jet, he spends his time in the cargo hold with two fluffy dogs named "Scrappy" and "Coco." Zohan styles their hair from photos in his Paul Mitchell haircut book.<br /><br />At first, Zohan has no luck getting a job with Paul Mitchell, much less cutting hair. Zohan defends Michael (Nick Swardson of "Reno 911, The Movie") in a street brawl after a motorist blames Michael for his accident with a delivery truck. A grateful Michael invites Zohan to stay with his mother, Gail (Lainie Kazan of "Dayton's Devils"), and him. Zohan practices cutting Gail's hair when he isn't having in lusty sex with her. Eventually, Zohan gets a job sweeping up hair at a salon owned by Dalia (Emmanuelle Chriqui of "Wrong Turn") who as it turns out is a Palestinian. Indeed, Zohan knows about her heritage but doesn't let it bother him. One day when one of Dalia's hair stylists doesn't show up, Zohan takes advantage of her absence to cut hair. Much to Dalia's surprise, Zohan wins the allegiance of the over sixty crowd. Older woman line up around the block to have him fashion their hair. After each session, Zohan takes each older lady in the back and assuages their sexual appetites.<br /><br />Meanwhile, a millionaire real estate developer Walbridge (Michael Buffer of "Rocky Balboa") hikes the rent to force Dalia and others like her out of her store to make way for his mall with a roller-coaster. Zohan surprises both Dalia and Walbridge's people and forks over the money for her to pay the rent. An angry Walbridge contacts a white supremacy group to ignite a neighborhood war between the Israelis and Palestinians. This happens about the same time that Zohan falls in love with Dalia. Perennial Sandler cohort Rob Schneider of "Deuce Bigalow" appears as a cretinous Palestinian named Salim who doesn't know the difference between nitroglycerin and Neosporin. He tries to blow up Zohan for an old grudge. It seems Zohan beat Salim up and stole his goat.<br /><br />"You Don't Mess with the Zohan" qualifies as a surreal comedy. Scenarists Robert Smigel of "Saturday Night Live," Judd Apatow of "The 40-Year Old Virgin," and Sandler himself vigorously ignore the laws of logic in this zany comedy. The movie that most closely resembles "Zohan" is "Little Nicky," because both characters boast supernatural abilities. "You Don't Mess with the Zohan" will keep Adam Sandler fans in stitches.