William Keane (Damian Lewis) is a man looking for the his missing daughter who he claims was abducted several months ago. In between searching for his missing daughter, Sophie, he befriends Lynn Bedik (Amy Ryan) and her daughter, Kira Bedik (Abigail Breslin). Keane becomes attached to Kira because his missing daughter, Sophie, would be the same age. Throughout the movie Keane struggles to keep his illness in check especially around little Kira. But he can only keep it up for so before it all comes out.<br /><br />I've read several reviews from critics and as well as other moviegoers, both good and bad. I ended up watching the movie twice in one night. I was taken aback by the intimacy director, Lodge Kerrigan, had the camera constantly on William Keane (Damian Lewis). It felt like you were shadowing Keane's nearly every move from either over his shoulders or as you stood next to him.<br /><br />Within the first 15 minutes you get the sense there's something wrong with Keane. He continues to go back to the Port Authority to hopefully find some clues as to the the whereabouts of his daughter. At some he talks to himself and convinces himself some random gentleman has something to do with his daughters abduction. He follows him and proceeds to knock him down and continues to throw punches at him while asking where his daughter is. As abruptly as he started his eventually pulled off the man and walks away talking to himself. It makes you wonder what's going to happen next? Things begin to change as he befriends Lynn and her daughter, Kira. At one point Keane is asked to take care of Kira. There were some great scenes where we get to see him as a normal guy helping Kira with her homework and eating McDonald's.<br /><br />The scene I was really touched by was while Keane was telling Kira how to do better at Skeeball he began to feel what I call "his demons" begin to surface as he turns away from Kira. He begins shouting at no one in particular and at the same time he begins to struggle to keep them at bay. As Keane sits and deals with sadness Kira walks over and holds his hands in hers. I feel as if the roles of adult and child are switched as she is the one consoling him.<br /><br />This movie is easier to watch than it is for me to describe. There are so many emotions and feelings that are given and taken from you. Damian Lewis (William Keane) did an exceptional job of not overplaying a man struggling with this mental illness. I also think little Abigail Beslin (Kira Bedik) did an excellent job as being able to play the scenes so convincingly, especially the Skeeball scene. Two thumbs up to director, Lodge Kerrigan and the actors involved.