Yesterday, I had the opportunity to experience Keane with some friends at the Landmark Century Cinema in Chicago. Keane is an extraordinary film created by a truly exceptional filmmaker, Lodge Kerrigan. I had read many reviews and comments and thought that I was prepared for the intense story but I wasn't prepared to feel both assaulted and uplifted after seeing this movie. Keane is only 90 minutes long but it feels much longer because it creates a very high level of tension, but it is a subtle, constant tension, not like a break-neck chase scene in an action film. The movie quickly invades your soul and then seduces you onto an emotional roller-coaster. The tension comes from the fact that it all seems very real and you cannot help but care and worry about the characters. After the movie I went into the washroom and I was shocked to see that my face, neck, and chest were all blotchy and red, I've never experienced such a strong response from viewing a film before.<br /><br />What can I say that hasn't already been said more profoundly by others? Keane is a brilliant and unique film and it is, without a doubt, Damian Lewis's finest performance – and that is really saying something because he is a wonderful actor who is capable of conveying great feeling with his eyes and body and with a minimum of words and without overacting. The movie very realistically portrays poverty and mental illness and makes you feel great compassion for William Keane at the same time that you feel frightened and uncomfortable. You want to comfort William and pat him on the shoulder and say "don't be frightened, it will be alright" and the next moment you want to avoid him and "get away as fast as you can" because he is scary and disturbing and you never know which William you will encounter next. And on top of all this you feel great fear and concern for Kira, the very sweet and innocent child who becomes the focus of William's unpredictable attention and wonderfully portrayed by Abigail Breslin.<br /><br />The film's action covers only a few days and it very clearly portrays the hell that is this man's minute-to-minute existence with excruciating detail. William is basically a good person but he is driven to acts of self-destruction and violence by his illness and the central tragedy that dominates his life – real or imaginary. Watching how hard it was for him just to deal with the minutiae of daily living was agonizing. When the film ended (with incredible abruptness) a man in the row in front of us let out a large gasp as though someone had just punched him. Very few people just got up and left, many stayed all the way through the credits, and there was no conversation as we exited the theater, the silence was deafening – you could actually hear people thinking.<br /><br />In discussing the movie with my friends later it was clear that we had all been deeply affected in different ways and had varying thoughts about the film. For example, one suggested that perhaps Keane had really kidnapped Kira and that the film was told backwards after losing her? Another (an actor) was very impressed by that fact that this very mature film was only the director's third movie and she was amazed by Damian Lewis's bravery in taking on such a complex role with such fearless, selfless dedication. Still another was surprised at how natural and unscripted the movie seemed – as though we were really sharing this man's reality, especially the scenes between Keane and the little girl. We were all worried about William and Kira and wondered what will happen to them, as if they were real people, because they are – they represent many real people who live on the fringes of our society. It was clear that this movie will be with us all for a long time to come.<br /><br />I hope I am not giving the impression that Keane is a depressing film because it's not and it ends with the basically decent man that is William Keane triumphing over his illness – at least for the moment. You feel hope for William, not despair. You want him to get well because he is a good person.<br /><br />When I was driving home out of the city I saw a dirty, wild-looking street person begging for money at the side of the road. I have always been taught to avoid such people because they are dangerous and not to give them money because they will just spend it on drugs and alcohol – nothing that I saw in Keane disputed those beliefs but as I stopped to give the poor man some money it occurred to me that after experiencing this film, I could no longer just ignore someone like him. If you have a chance to see Keane - do it, it's really important.