Is this movie exciting? No. Fascinating? Yes. Let's get one thing straight. This is an independent movie. It is not a commercial release and therefore does not have the trappings of a commercial release. There is no musical score, the ending is abrupt, you end up with more questions than you started with, and you walk away feeling unsettled and not at all content. That's what makes the movie great. The silence and quiet adds to the intimacy and tension, the lack of resolution leaves you lost in thought even days later. Soderbergh said that the movie was of primary interest to film makers and film critics. It is a character study, so if you think what you are getting is another version of "Flightplan", you are in for a terrible disappointment (or wonderful surprise, depending on your tastes). 90 percent of the film simply follows Keane around on his daily routine. We see him eat lunch, we see him look for a job, we see him paying rent, we see him trying to function normally. Then we see him trying to quiet those demons that make it impossible for him to function normally. The scenes between Keane and the little girl Kira are tense and heartbreaking. We see Keane lucid and clear for enough time to really understand the tragedy of this situation. A glimpse of who he could be or who he was and the contrast with who he is now is crushing. We feel his agony when no matter how he tries, he can't keep up that lucidity 2 days in a row. We feel sad because even though we already knew it, we know this little girl can't save him, she can't help him. We know that if his missing daughter were to show up unharmed tomorrow, he still wouldn't be okay. The biggest question seems to be,was the daughter real or is she a delusion? Not one person in the film suggests or offers clues to that answer. After thinking about it, I say, does it really matter? What matters is that William Keane believes she's real. Everything he does is based on that belief. The fact that he himself is not *seen* by people adds to his frustration.