I believe the title speaks for itself. Date Movie has indeed earned a well deserved place in IMDb's bottom 100. The film is packed with disgusting images that would make any decent human being sick to his or her stomach. From the cat humping a nearly mummified corpse to Eddie Griffin spitting out a mammoth hairball in slow motion, the humor in this movie is downright distasteful. Sure, everyone needs a dumb comedy to laugh at once in a while, but there is nothing funny about the family cat raping Grandma's freeze-dried remains.<br /><br />There are several moments in this movie that could be funny were they not dramatically overdone. For instance, when the cat is sitting on the toilet with diarrhea for two whole minutes. It was comical for the first thirty seconds, but after that you start to impatiently wonder when this scene is going to end. Even more so is the opening sequence when Alyson Hannigan is dancing through the street in a fat-suit. No offense—I'm a bit on the heavy side myself—but no one wants to see a soaking wet obese woman dancing on her hands and knees. In the dinner scene, Adam Campbell's orgasmic and continuous shouts of "YES!" are awkward to watch. Judah Friedlander plays Nicky, a fat slob covered from head to toe in grease stains who states one of the most disgusting lines of the film, "When I think about the honeymoon my sac gets all tingly and s--t." That's just nasty. Carmen Electra's parody of Paris Hilton's car washing commercial for the Hardee's thick burger is sickening and it is shown in at least four flashbacks throughout the film. It's simply overkill.<br /><br />To its credit, this film does have some key elements that most audiences enjoy in a movie. Boy meets girl, boy thinks girl is beautiful, boy and girl fall in love, boy and girl face obstacles in their relationship, boy and girl overcome said obstacles, and they all live happily ever after. Sadly, this film could have been something enjoyable, but it instead we are faced with this warped piece of trash that only the most sick and uncouth can laugh at. This is a movie that will mean absolutely nothing to future generations (if it even exists to them at all). Yes, it had potential, but it turned out to be something repulsive.<br /><br />Really, Date Movie doesn't deserve the attention it's getting from me writing this review. I'm trying to impress upon all movie-goers what a saddening waste of time this film is. I heard warnings from friends, critics, and fellow movie buffs, but like an idiot I watched it anyway. Don't make the same mistake I did. And if you are so curious that you decide to watch it against your better judgment, don't eat before doing so.