Connor Mead (Matthew McConaughey) is a fashion photographer known for his revealing photos AND his love-em-and-leave-em practices. Short on time, one day, Connor finds it expedient to break up with three women on a conference call. Needless to say, they are disgusted, but Connor still has a knack for attracting adoring females. His personal assistant has to remind him that he is due at a rehearsal dinner for his brother's wedding and may have to cut short a liaison or two. Arriving at the family home in Connecticut, Connor upsets the wedding party with lightning speed as he propositions an older woman (Anne Archer), who turns out to be the bride's mother, and has an unfortunate accident in the kitchen. But, worst of all, Mr. Mead runs smack into an old flame, Jenny (Jennifer Garner), the designated maid of honor. Friends since childhood, Connor once wooed Jenny but the relationship turned sour, due to Connor's aversion to commitment. Now, as Connor settles into one of the mansion's rooms, he is visited by the ghost of his now-deceased, lothario-like Uncle Wayne (Michael Douglas), as well as the ghost of the teenage girl who was his first "conquest", and an angel-like spirit from the future, a la Christmas Carol. Can they show Connor Mead the important things in life and love? This film is a pleasant pasttime for fans of light, romantic comedy but, it is by no means great, merely good. The two principal players are quite nice, with Garner doing a fine job as the jilted girlfriend of long ago and McConaughey very competent in a role so familiar that he could do it well in his sleep. (Do look for a different type of role soon, Mr. McC, that's this viewer's advice). The supporting cast is even better, with Breckin Meyer, Lacey Chabert, Archer, and especially Robert Forster and Douglas, adding nice animation to a relatively routine script. The sets, costumes, and other production values are very fine. As for the direction, it is acceptable but definitely plays it safe, resulting in a flick that seems far too middle of the road. If you are a fan of romantic comedy, yes, you will be in your element when you sit down for a showing and most others will find the film bearable. But, even so, lower your expectations just a tad, for then you will not be disappointed when you realize it is not in the same company as such classics as Notting Hill or Return to Me.