It would make more sense to view this story as a TV mini-series the way it was originally produced than to do as I did, and catch it all in one sitting on Encore Westerns. For one, the picture is ponderously long at three and a half plus hours, and you have to be patient with the abrupt scene changes that were designed around commercial breaks and new chapters. Particularly frustrating was a seven year time lapse that reunites Hugh Cardiff (Sam Elliott) and Libby Tyree (Penny Peyser); Libby had gotten married to the adopted Tyree son (Bruce Boxleitner) off screen, and it just springs up on you with no advance warning. Cardiff had promised to return in a year's time, but didn't, and one's only indication that time was passing by was the sudden aging of Sam Elliott's character.<br /><br />The interesting part about the story has to do with the way Cardiff manufactures a persona for himself and friend Caleb Rice (Timothy Scott) based on frontier exploits that are entirely made up. They capture the imagination of pulp fiction writer Bob Halburton (Pat Hingle), and based on the success of his newspaper's accounts, the boys find themselves headlining Wild Bill Hickok's Wild West show. Besides Hickok, portrayed by L.Q. Jones, the other historical figure to make an appearance was Doc Holliday, courtesy of Dennis Hopper. Neither character had much to do with the story, particularly Holliday, who was on camera just about long enough to be out-gunned by Cardiff in a not very satisfying showdown.<br /><br />The finale itself also turned out to be fairy anti-climactic. You know the love triangle had to be resolved, but there didn't seem to be the tension one expects of an inevitable showdown. With Cardiff's gun skills at the center of the story, it didn't take too much to figure out who would come out on top, and once again, it's all over in pretty much a flash.<br /><br />With only a few comments posted on this forum regarding the picture, I can see I'm in the minority, but I just didn't find this Western to be that rewarding. It's not terrible, but not exciting enough to score a recommendation. Maybe in the original format it might have made a stronger statement, but if you're on the fence about catching it, it wouldn't hurt to let it pass.