Getting right to the point, this movie was a huge letdown in my eyes. I have been making my way through some horror movies I had not seen yet (May, A Tale of Two Sisters, etc...) when I ran across this title. It was ranked on a lot of top horror movie lists, but after watching I can honestly say I don't understand why. The filmmakers seem like they can't figure out what sub-genre they want to end up with. This movie struggles between being a gore horror (succeeding in some parts but overall trying too hard), a dark comedy (a bad one at that), and a deeper movie than what it is by trying to develop character depth (epic fail).<br /><br />I gave this movie some stars because it does manage to introduce some elements that could have been good, if the movie wouldn't have had so many negative qualities. The gore succeeds at times, but as I said before overall it feels forced and given the attempts at comedy and character development, doesn't feel like a gore horror. The movie also gives brief biographies of each character, but this becomes redundant after the first 3-4 and by the time they are all done, you're wondering why they did so many. The cinematography is good in some areas when it is not shaking from cut scene to cut scene so fast that it makes you wonder if you are having a seizure or watching a movie.<br /><br />Sadly, the monsters in this movie look too much like the creatures from the "Alien" series to give credit to the filmmakers. For the life of me, I still see no reason why the monsters decide to wear clothing and bulls heads when the bull skulls don't even cover where their heads are located. Though a small gripe and not a defining factor for my rating, it still bothers me that creatures which hump items at random, eat humans whole, and throw up on people have some sort of issue with not wearing clothing.<br /><br />If you're looking for a good horror movie and have not seen many, I would recommend looking elsewhere. If you're simply a horror movie fan like myself who has seen many and is looking for something that has slipped through the cracks.....I'd still suggest looking elsewhere. If you're trying to prolong going to get that root canal done but have ran out of other things to procrastinate with though, this is less painful. I give this movie a 4/10 because it simply takes itself too seriously to write it off as a dark comedy, but not seriously enough to be a good horror movie.