I lived in Ontario, Canada in 1997/1998 and one day in 1998 CKCO-TV (owned by CTV) ran a special report called "Abduction in Lake County" it ran for roughly 35 mins and another 30 mins afterwards was the Sheriffs reports, expert interviews about the tape, etc.<br /><br />This is not what was originally shown in 1998! This movie is clearly done by actors (I recognize them from multiple shows) and the original was terrifying, literally terrifying! This one isn't, it's a complete mockery. This is clearly a re-make of the original footage.<br /><br />Anyone who saw the original would know this.<br /><br />This is what happened in the original. A farming family is getting ready for a dinner, the son is playing around with the video camera, within minutes the power goes out, they think its a lightning storm, the father and 2 sons (1 has the cam with him) go to check it out outside, they notice a nearby transformer is sparking and sustained damage, they walk closer to see it, they look down under the transformer and notice 3 aliens slicing a cow with a laser, they get spotted, 1 alien fires the laser at them (no beam is seen), the other son is injured, they run back to the house, tell the family, the family immediately panics and wants to take the son to the hospital, the father and the son go to the truck (a really old beat up truck) and cant start it, they notice the engine was completely melted, they run back to the house, and they hear them upstairs, the father and son walk up the stairs and hears a alien in the bedroom (the door is closed), the alien fires a laser through the door, the father fires the shotgun, kills the alien (presumably), they run back down, the family is panicking even more, they attempt to run out of the house, an electrical bolt/laser comes through the window above the door, injures another family member, they run back to the dining room, a loud noise enters the room, they fall in pain, the sound stops, then they notice they all have nose bleeds and what appear to be radiation burns on their bodies, the little girl (no older than 5) says (in a monotone voice) that everything is going to be OK, she seemed zombified and keeps reassuring them everything will be OK and not to worry, she doesn't move or say anything else, the father finally goes out of the house to try to get the truck working or find some other transportation, they hear shots fired, they all run out and notice he's gone and the shotgun is melted, they run back to the house, the son with the camera goes upstairs to change his pants (because he peed himself) he goes back down and notices everyone is gone, he runs back upstairs in the bathroom sits on the toilet, sets the camera to point at him, he says he's scared and doesn't want to die, he starts crying and he says he doesn't know what's going on or why are they doing this, then you see a 3 fingered hand grab the camera lens, a alien grabbed it, looked at it (meanwhile the lens is facing it so you see the alien)it then puts the camera down in a different direction, and that's all you see. (all this happened in roughly 35 mins) These people were not recognizable, not actors, they were kind of ugly in fact.<br /><br />This movie (Warning: Contains spoilers) was nothing like the original. This movie lasted over an hour, and it includes family arguments, bad acting and a lot of soap-opera style drama. This family sits down and eats dinner while they know aliens are outside, no one panics, the little girl is a lot older in the video and is too active and talkative. She takes shells out the gun and hides it (didn't happen in the original). This movie includes elements of racism (again which didn't happen in the original). The truck is newer. The battery is destroyed, not the engine. The eldest male person is an older brother, not a father. You see a red light hit the son. You see a ufo and 2 aliens in front of it (which look like terrible Halloween costumes) they are not under the transformer. There is no electric bolt/laser ever shown. Aliens are heard on roof, not upstairs. A alien is shot upstairs in a different room. They go through a whole ordeal with walking in the room, looking at the body, tying the door, putting a bookcase in front of it. The whole family comes upstairs (again not original). The family sits and eats some more, the mother drinks heavily and is only talking about the dinner and having dinner. Everyone is relaxed and not panicking. The African American actor is a lot taller and plays a major role in the film (in the original he was a quiet guest that was terrified and wanted to leave). There is drama where he making out with the other guys wife. The son with the camera runs upstairs to his room to change his pants and that's when he encounters a alien that seems to hypnotize him, but somehow he ends up going downstairs to eat dinner again. He places the camera on a kitchen counter, they eat dinner some more, a red light enters the room and it shows 2 aliens (obviously costumes, its awful) begin taking the family members away and then the camera slowly gets static on it and fades out, then it goes to credits.<br /><br />Seriously, did they think that people who saw the original and remember it would honestly fall for this film? <br /><br />The real footage is gone forever I assume! <br /><br />This movie is not worth seeing because it's not the original.