Firstly, I would like to say I enjoyed the film, despite the crap, sometimes laughable acting and poor effects. But the fact it was an amateur film makes it all the more unnerving. Like most people I watched this at midnight by myself, and I'm one of those people who is fascinated by alien abduction stories so I must say some of the scenes did scare me.<br /><br />Obviously this film was a fake, or possibly a remaking of possibly real footage (the information box on sky digital claimed the movie was a remake BASED on real events),but I doubt this is true. What people do not realise is that if someone discovered a tape containing what seemed to be images of aliens from another world and contacted the authorities, this would be the biggest event, probably in the history of civilisation. The government would never let anyone know the existence of the tape, let alone air it on Sky One. So you people who are convinced it was real, why? The only one bit that had me confused was where it gave you an American phone number to contact if you knew the whereabouts of the family. I soon came to the conclusion that this was just adding to the 'authenticity' of the film. I was thinking of pranking it, just for fun, but apparently the number wasn't real.<br /><br />Also, I know this came out before BWP but one of them must of borrowed off the other. Something else that cannot be coincidence is that there are scenes in Signs which almost exactly replicate scenes from The Macpherson Tape. The Alien on the roof, the girl asking for water and having a supernatural connection to the aliens, the whole theme of being locked in your own home, on some farm near a lake while aliens invade your home. There is no doubt that this was the basis for Signs.<br /><br />Basically, this would be a good film to watch with your girlfriend (if you watched this then you probably don't have one... only joking) in the middle of the night with the lights off. Just take it for what it is. I'm more interested in finding out whether there is any truth behind the film, rather than moaning about the poor effects. Thanks for reading all of this and if anyone has any genuine information about anything real behind this movie, please contact me.