Be fun! That's what this show gets right. Do we remember what fun TV was like? Remember the sheer (albeit cheesy) entertainment value of the 80s prime time shows? Airwolf, Knight Rider, A-Team, Magnum etc which sacrificed strict adherence to the laws (judicial and physical!) to entertain TV viewers? <br /><br />Week after week the officers of NCIS deal with murders, kidnappings and other threats to the lives of Naval officers across the globe (well at least the U.S.) but rather than adhere to the dark, overly serious tone of the law&orders or CSI's this program offsets the (often heinous) crime of the week with the banter between the central characters. Now I'm not suggesting that crime is a laughing matter but a lot of shows on TV have substituted entertainment for large doses of shock value reality. Detailed autopsies and simulations of how an icepick can crack open a skull are okay, but not at the expense of following the whole investigation. While the CSI's follow a Holmes like approach with regards to evidence, NCIS distinguishes the forest from the trees as it were, by switching to and from the autopsy/evidence/forensics back to the larger case. I guess I'm a viewer who doesn't find the notion of meticulous attention to detail on an entertainment show that rewarding.<br /><br />Truth be told, I was not expecting such a clichéd assortment of characters to click as well as they did. We have the silent but strong type leader (Gibbs), his boss and former lover (Shepard), his older friend and mentor (Ducky), the hotshot womanizer (DiNozzo), the rookie agent/computer genius (McGee), the spunky female agent (Kate/Ziva) and the happiest, Goth forensic examiner (Abby) - okay, well she's an original. What impressed me is how the writers breathe fresh life into what could have been just another ensemble.<br /><br />While the stories of the week are interesting enough, they've all been covered ad nauseum in many different shows: homicide; hostage-taking; blackmail; assassination-threats etc Credit must be given to the writers for the humor that's been injected into this show - whether it's DiNozzo cracking on McGee or Gibbs admonishing his Junior agents - the wonderful chemistry the cast seem to share comes through every time 2 or more of them are on screen. Pauley Perrette is a delight to watch While the dialogue may not always crackle there is enough zip and some genuinely funny one-liners that somehow develop these characters beyond the 2D cardboard cutouts they could have become.<br /><br />I continue to look forward to this show every week and Season 4 seems to have lost none of the momentum of the past 2 seasons. One complaint I often hear about this show, is that it seems unrealistic how fast the cases get solved. I'll grant you that McGee and Abby seem to have superhuman abilities to process data and crack codes, but I submit to you that the 3 act structure that a typical episode of this show presents, requires a certain amount of time compression to fit into the 42 minutes and change of every broadcast hour. Seeing how 24 continues to entertain us despite the absence of traffic i.e. realism, I'll continue to give this show leeway as long as it remains interesting.