Today, the TV is fulled with stuff, you can find almost everything. And if crime is what you 're looking for, CSI Miami or CSI NY are the average answers. Why? Very easy: American government, then American people, then American nation wants to see themselves like Superman all the time. That's why we see Gary Sinsie breaking a terrorist, David Carusso putting his sunglasses and shaking the hand of his Mexican friend, who in the next episode, he may kill, after doing what they call "justice" OK, ladies and germs: for those that think that crime and justice are so easy words, I'm sorry to tell you: You're wrong. Crime is not that easy. And, as I said before, the TV is fulled. So, we also have the "true crime" shows like Criminal Minds, Law And Order CI and SVU, Withouth a Trace and many more. In Law And Order CI, they usually focus on the victims, with very strong and dense cases, but someone wonders: "What about the investigator itself? Does it have to be danger danger all the time or can you have some fun?" If that is your question, NCIS is one of your main answers. NCIS comes from Donald P. Bellisario, the creator of the well-known series JAG. He was also a writer of several Magnum P.1 episodes. NCIS is, more than just forensics, it's a character show. It's the story of the in and out relationships of the investigators and scientists of an agency that does anything criminal tied up to the marines, thing that Bellisario liked to do also in JAG. Therefore, we can find humor, drama, love, tragedy, and some bits of US action, besides of one of the most unusual characters you can find on such genre: an 50's former marine is the leader, a goth forensics and an 86 years old Scotish M.E that talks to his corpses. If we do a season analysis on the show, we can conclude that, it has been rising to good. The first season was a bit of CSI style, everyone was just cool. But it already had the trademark humor and a good ending. Season 2 could have initially been the same case, but the end was totally surprising. Season 3 was a very ruff one, were mistakes and chance are all the time, 4 was just human, and 5... Well, 5 has not shown up yet down here at Mexico, but I have heard that is good. NCIS is, in summary: Human 10/10 GREAT CAST GREAT CHARACTERS GREAT HUMOR GREAT...