this is by far, the scariest movie i have ever seen. and it even made me laugh. i saw this a very long time ago, in the theatres, and i had never heard of Sam Raimi at the time. this film is an example of what you can do with a bit of money and a brilliant mind. using cameras, sound,editing and anticipation, what we have here is an engrossing, raw horror movie with a uniquely charming eternal champion. and i loved the special effects, which includes his use of sound and camera work. they weren't up to the block-buster digital computerized seamless stuff we see now, but for me this only added to its' charm. the film also didn't take itself too seriously either, which is always appreciated. i really like the character of Ash, and his progression from ordinary guy to cocky, evil dead fighter. as for Sam Raimi, it didn't take long to see just how gifted he is as a director, and i couldn't wait to see what he could do with a bigger budget. i think his track record now speaks for itself. this is a hard-core, for horror fans movie. i'm only guessing but i think baby-boomers who want to be scared will love this film. i also like seeing Bruce Campbell show up in Raimi films, like the face in the crowd in the last shot in Dark Man, right on up to his television shows and the power-tripping gate-keeper in Spider Man 2. He uses his brother in his films too,(aarrgh Henrietta!) nice to see, as well as seeing his partner's wife in cameos in his other films( great punk look, xena). i understand that Bridget Fonda asked Sam to give her a small role in Army of Darkness because she is such a fan of the movies, and probably of Mr Raimi as well, whom she worked with in A Simple Plan. great film. my understanding is that he has written the screenplay for an Evil Dead 4. this is great news to me, and makes sense considering how Army of Darkness ended. Army didn't scare me, but i loved it all the same. i don't know what to expect from a fourth one....scarier than hell or campy fun, or both? i say, bring it on! he wont have any trouble getting real money for #4, which he didn't need in the first three to make them so truly great. so, trust me on this. if you love horror films, check out Evil Dead 2, dead by dawn. i wouldn't watch it alone either. i don't care how macho you are. it's an engaging roller-coaster,fun ride. not for the uninitiated and not for Sleepless in Seattle-type fans. this is pure, classic, camp with a great ending.