Sequel or remake? There has always been a huge debate whether Evil Dead II is a sequel or a remake, since the second film contradicts the story that occurred in Evil Dead. Such as, the ending of Evil Dead ends with Ash being chased down by the evil spirit which deceased the other characters. However, after the paraphrase of events at the start of Evil Dead II, which only features Ash and Linda and Ash is once again hit by the same evil spirit. That's where the story begins in the second film.<br /><br />So, the book was destroyed in The Evil Dead, whereas it appears again in Evil Dead II. This certainly isn't a huge factor. Actually, if one can recall James Whale's 1935 masterpiece sequel entitled Bride of Frankenstein. There is no question that director Sam Raimi used the Whale masterpiece as the blueprint for his sequel. In Bride of Frankenstein, the film starts with a prologue that recaps the events of the first film, however, completely contradicting the entire ending of the film which is where the sequel starts. I understand that Raimi was going through legal issues, so he was forced in this position to contradict the first film, but he certainly used the way that made Bride of Frankenstein the classic in remains. Not to mention, in Frankenstein, it is a straightforward horror film, whereas in the sequel it is a macabre, satirical film that uses the blend of horror and black comedy at it's finest. No doubt Raimi's Evil Dead II uses the same concept.<br /><br />So is Evil Dead II a sequel or a remake? It is undoubtedly a sequel! A fairly good one as well, that in many ways surpasses it's original prototype. It's certainly not one of the most visually inventive, relentless, and truly original films ever made as some claim it to be, it's not even one of the top films of it's very own genre. However, it remains one of the best full-on gore slapstick's ever seen. The script is witty, and well written (mostly on the part of Scott Spiegel). It's no secret that one of films main inspirations was The Three Stooges, along with many other slapstick comedy's. Though it's director Raimi's unbelievable POV shots, weird lighting, stop motion animation, moving hand held camera, etc. that makes the film work.<br /><br />That being said, Evil Dead II just isn't a grade-A horror film, it isn't on the level of the classics such as, Peeping Tom, Freaks, Nosferatu, Vampyr, The Phantom of the Opera (silent), The Man Who Laughs, etc. It does not have much of a plot. It has very little acting, little continuity, and no logic. Evil Dead II is a classic cult horror film in every sense of the word. You simply have to come along and experience it for yourself.