If you read the box then you are ready to get your heart warmed when you pop in this Bergman scripted film by Bille August. But if you have half-a-brain then you're probably anticipating that the box is exactly what it turns out to be: bull that hopes to get people to watch it even though it's vintage Bergman.<br /><br />Brutal in a way that "Scenes from a Marriage" never is, in "The Best Intentions" Bergman accomplishes something extraordinary: he gets us to root for him never to have been born.<br /><br />What I mean is that his father (as expertly portrayed by Samuel Froler) is such a monstrous egotistical hubristic sociopath that I almost couldn't continue watching as he defined for the first time the ground rules of the Bergmanesque hell we would all become so familiar with in the future. Maybe that's why Bergman writes such strong women, because he casts his mother as the heroine and actually lets her overcome the obstacles, but here we get to watch a saintly intelligent woman get beaten down physically and mentally over and over by her psychotic husband's fetishizing of unhappiness and misery. As an example: he takes the very fact that she does not want to be in the desolate awful town they move to as a sign that it is the exact place she should be. She can't visit her family and she has to work like a slave for him. He strikes her several times, usually when he has been in the wrong. He makes her give up everything but whenever he has to he calls her spoiled and invokes God (but only in order to get things he wants). He holds every petty thing that ever happens against her. He keeps sleeping with his other fiancé without breaking it off when he starts sleeping with Anna, but neither of them can really hold it against him because apparently (though I don't know why) he's such a good person.<br /><br />If you believe the box then Anna's mother, who opposes the marriage, is the witch who will be proved wrong, but if you saw "Fanny och Alexander" then you remember that the grandmother was right (and that he relegated the monster father to being a stepfather). Both mothers oppose the marriage, and they're both right. That the grandmother is actually a good person is signified by Bergman's giving her the name "Karin" which is usually reserved for the pure of heart. This is so because his mother's name was "Karin," not "Anna." Also he gives Anna's brother his own actual first name, "Ernst," though I have no clue what that signifies.<br /><br />Bergman knows this, and some of the best evidence he gives of this is tenuously confirmed across a few films: the foil for Henrik Bergman in this film is Nordenson, a soulless capitalist pig who reminds us that secularism can be as monstrous as hubristic piety. Nordenson commits suicide (no big spoiler). In Bergman's final film "Sarabande" there is a husband named "Henrik" (spoiler coming up) whose sainted wife (whom he did not deserve) dies and then he commits suicide. Bergman's opposition to Nordenson looks for a minute like it is going to be the only decent thing he does, then you realize that he just wants to match egos with him.<br /><br />I wish the other ones ("Sunday's Children", "Private Confessions" and "In the Presence of a Clown") were available readily in the US, especially to see Peter Stormare assay an older "Petrus", that little zombie.<br /><br />The VHS of this film is shameful, blotchy letter often against a white background, completely indistinguishable. I don't think it is available on DVD which is a joke, it won best picture at Cannes in 1992! I would honestly not advocate that people see this if they are not already familiar with Bergman and inured to the site of a loving person's soul being crushed one step at a time. Pernilla August deserved her award, I saw every lash landing; All I could think in the last frame when she reaches out to him again was "NOOOOOO!"