Ever since I came to know that a movie is coming out on Akbar, one of the Mughal ruler, I had decided to boycott it by not watching it. As I do not want to watch and be part of a film glorifying and celebrating any Mughal ruler who looted, mass murdered, and converted by force (to Islam) hundreds and thousands of innocent Hindustani (Indian) people. Even after when I came to know that Ashutosh Gowarikar is directing this movie, one who gave us amazing experience in "Lagaan" and "Swades", I was still skeptical to watch it.<br /><br />But as a movie critic when I got an invitation to watch first day first show with a guest, my mother convinced me to go and take her too. The movie was just what I expected, twisted history, glorifying the Mughals who looted, raped, destroyed Mandir (temples), mass converted, and openly carried out pogroms. The movie was long, boring, and repetitive. For the whole 3.5 hrs I could not figure out where is the story heading and what is the director trying to convey. I can't believe it is from Mr. Gowarikar who gave us "Lagaan" and brewed the love story between Bhuvan-Gauri-Elizabeth so beautifully even when the plot was about getting rid of the lagaan (tax).<br /><br />But in Jodhaa Akbar I was cringing in my seat thinking when the movie will end and what the end would be as the story was not developing any climax. It was so twisted, sometimes Sujamal is with Akbar, sometimes he is not, sometimes Maham Anga is nice, sometimes she is not, hey Ram (oh God), so confusing. The love story (if there was any) between Jodhaa and Akbar was like making a mountain out of mole. The war scenes were average. There were few good comic one liners from the eunuch. Only the acting of Sonu Sood, Rajesh Vivek, and Ila Arun stood out. The director was unnecessarily bent about showing Hritik Roshan's muscles and Aishwarya Rai's pretty curvature. And yeah, do take a Urdu to Hindi dictionary, because most of the dialogs were just going over most of the audiences head as everyone was asking each other to decode what the actors just said. At least they could have put some Hindi subtitles for the complex Urdu words they were throwing here and there.<br /><br />Overall under-average one time watch movie. Be ready to spare 3.5 hrs as it is a very very long movie. Even after the movie finishes it is hard to decide if the movie is about Akbar's war with Rajput clan or a so called love story between Jodhaa and Akbar. I am tired and bored, I need some refreshments.