This amusing movie set in a perfect Victorian atmosphere (1870,England )especulates about what might have happened if Sherlock Holmes (Nicholas Rowe) and Doctor Watson (Alex Cox) had met during their student times in London. Holmes falls in love with a beautiful youngster (Sophie Ward) , living with her uncle , a retired professor named Waxflatter(Nigel Stock). Then happens several murders and Holmes helps Inspector Lestrade (Roger Ashton-Griffiths) to resolve it. Then young Sherlock performing feats of derring-do in London including a spectacular flight and dangerous duels. Although Sir Arthur Conan Doyle did not write about the youthful years of Sherlock Holmes , he established the initial meeting between Holmes and Watson as adults. This affectionate speculation on what might have happened has been made with respect and admiration, knowing references to Sherlock's later existence and in tribute to the author in his enduring works.<br /><br />This stirring, fast-paced film is packed with noisy action, adventures, tension and is quite entertaining. It's a genuine ripping yarn with much suspense, intrigue and outstanding surprises. Nicholas Rowe is nice as obstinate and intelligent young Holmes as well as Alex Cox as timid and easy frightened John Watson. Some images are very creepy and eerie and developed in ¨Indiana Jones and the temple of Doom¨ style, for that reason is rated PG-13 for violence and crude scenes. Spectacular special effects by Kit West and Pixar Animation Studios making 'the glass man sequence' and puppets by David Allen. Furthermore visual effects supervisor by Dennis Muren with some of the firsts images made by means of computer generator. Atmospheric score fitting to action by Bruce Broughton and Sinfonia of London Orchestra. Well written by Chris Columbus and lavishly produced by Steven Spielberg with his usuals, Frank Marshall and Kathleen Kennedy. The picture is well directed by Barry Levinson.Youth and little boys are likely to enjoy this bemusing film.