I, too, wish to beg forgiveness... for I have never seen Ms. Harding before tonight.Now, I HAVE to see everything she has done;and TCM is showing another 1933 film of hers-"The Right To Romance"-1933 with Robert Young at 5:00AM---she plays a plastic surgeon with marital woes with an ex-boyfriend involved. So,I am compelled to stay up, and watch Ms. Harding again.<br /><br />Just like everyone else who has commented, she gives such a natural, under-played "non-scheming scheming woman"!I have never seen better.Mr. Cromwell did wonders with Betty Davis the next year when they did,"Of Human Bondage"... I'm wondering how much it was his direction that coaxed such great simplicity from Ms.Harding-or, is it her own 'pony'?!<br /><br />Mr. Powell was exactly the same as he was the next year in, "The Thin Man"--- so, it would be my suspicion that Ms. Harding rose to the 'occasion' on her own 'horse'. We shall see later, but for now, Ms. Harding just scored a 'bull's eye"!!!! Well, i stayed up, and saw, "A Right to Romance" It was NO, "Double Harness"!!!!!!!!!!! At first i thought she was 'reserved' because sh was supposed to be a prim,proper doctor, who had no time, even for having a manicure, for any social life. She NEVER 'warmed up', IMHO, for the whole movie!She is supposed to fall in love with gregarious, Robert Young.When the picture opened, Ms. Harding had her hair in a TIGHT bun--her hair was FAMOUS for being so long it went down to her waist!!!!!!!!!! Wouldn't you think the director would employ the 'letting down' of her hair, when she is 'liberated' by Mr. Young?<br /><br />Then I thought when the young crippled boy appeared, she would have warm scenes with him.... there were barely any emotion shown towards him, even when she saves his life. Have any of you rascals seen this film..... maybe I am wrong. Luckily, "Double Harness" will be shown again on TCM on the 26th. at 5:15PM.... Director of "Double...",John Cromwell,who also directed the CLASSIC, "Of Human Bondage"-1934-which will be shown at 6:30PM- so you can see his skill... <br /><br />After that- a very 'touchy' subject-abortion-will be confronted with the PRE-code film,"Men in White"-1934-just before the 'code' was enforced. The word "abortion" is never said, but it is plain as day what i going on! great performances by Clark Gable-the doctor, and Myrna Loy, the 'high-maintenance socialite', who 'tosses' him because he stays to save a patient's life, rather than attend her party. I just finished researching Ms. Harding,I'll post her bio.it on the "Ann Harding" site.I've finished bio. for Ann Harding... go to her site in IMDb. I left out: She has 2 stars on the Hollywodd walk of fame: 6201 Hollywood Blvd. for motion pictures, and 6850 Hollywood Blvd. for TV work.