This delightful and oh-so-sophisticated combination comedy/drama was my personal favorite at Cinefest. With clever dialogue, fetching lead actors and delicious directing, I was hooked at the onset. Beautiful Ann Harding is seen cooking and explaining to her engaged sister (Lucile Brown) that to men, business is business but that marriage is the business of women. Harding sets her sights on William Powell, a super smooth playboy who inherited a struggling shipping line. She sets a trap arranging for her sister to send their father (stern Henry Stephenson) to Powell's apartment for the purpose of catching Harding and Powell alone. To save face, Powell agrees to marry Harding, at least for a while. On the honeymoon, Powell suggests a divorce, while Harding coolly recommends they wait six months so as not to seem too obvious. She then starts steering him to leading his company back to profitability by looking at it as a challenge. With his talents now attending to business and not bedroom conquests, Powell starts to enjoy his newfound success and begins to fall in love with his bride. In the meantime Harding's jealous sister, now unhappily married, has been living beyond her means and needs money fast. She blurts out the truth of the marriage trap when Harding refuses to again pay off her debts. Powell leaves, disillusioned. Harding's father has arranged for a huge business deal to be offered to Powell at a formal dinner party at their home that very night. As Powell is boarding a ship to Europe, his frazzled wife is at home greeting guests and trying to maintain composure. One by one, each guest is involved in a personal crisis and is pulled away from the dinner party from hell, presided over by blustery Reginald Owen as the butler. I can't go on with out spoiling the best joke. This forgotten film is four stars all the way. I saw this film in March of 2004 at the CINEFEST film festival in Syracuse, NY. Thank god for film festivals like this one that make rare films like this available and the folks who provide comments to IMDB for others to share. Please support the IMDB and early film festivals!