I have read with amusement the comments of many viewers who have utterly trashed this movie; well, they are entitled to their opinions, and they may have them. How many of them have a personal animus against Lindsay Lohan? Of course, I don't know, but my guess is that many of them are reacting to what is happening in Miss Lohan's off-stage life and are piling on with the bile and venom, kicking her when she's down; how chivalrous of them. <br /><br />Yes, Yes, YES, I know her personal life is a shambles, and I really do hope that she can turn things around, and if she doesn't, she will have no one to blame but herself. That being said, her personal troubles don't automatically sentence this movie to the rubble heap. I have seen this movie three times already, and I feel it is artistic in a very dark, chilling way--but hey, it's a horror film; it's supposed to be that way! Helloooooo!<br /><br />Reviewers have been talking about plot holes and ridiculousness; don't most horror movies have a measure of this (a murdering doll named Chucky? vampires in Alaska, coming soon to a theater near you?) Horror films require us to suspend belief in one way or another--heck, lots of other film genres require that, as well! Why all the bile for this film? (Oh, and let's not forget a little 1960's sci-fi TV series called "The Twilight Zone"; certainly no plot holes or reality suspension there!) <br /><br />I must admit that I probably would not have seen this film except for the fact that Miss Lohan stars in it, since I'm not in the habit of seeing horror films. Yes, I have a bias, and I am putting it out in the open, which is more than most commentators I've seen have done. As far as I see, Lohan has an intenseness and a force about her that few other actresses have, an earthy, in-your-face kind of energy that other actresses don't possess, as far as I'm concerned (and I realize her major problem is how to control that energy off-camera). This was a gutsy film choice for her to make, considering the subject matter and, of course, the fact that she didn't know how it would be received. She really went out on a limb on this movie--and yes, I know, people will be snickering that she sawed the limb off behind her-- and made an artistic choice, and, well, what can I say? Art is in the eye of the beholder, and this particular piece of art is disturbing, scary, dark, bloody, and so forth, but so what? It's supposed to be! I do realize that those reviewers, both amateur and "professional" (as if having a journalism degree and a job at a paper makes someone's opinion somehow more worthy than anyone else's) who laughed at or ridiculed this film are entitled to their opinions, but frankly, I can't see where they're coming from, and I don't share their venom and bile. Call me crazy, if you want.