"I Know Who Killed Me" is about a young college student named Aubrey Fleming (Lindsay Lohan), who disappears one night while going out with some friends. She is found on the side of road weeks later, still alive, with her hand and leg viciously amputated by her captor. But when she awakens in the hospital, Aubrey claims to be somebody else... a woman named Dakota Moss, a rough-living stripper who says that she is being mistaken as Aubrey, and that the real Aubrey Fleming is still in mortal danger. Aubrey's worried parents try and uncover the truth, while Dakota tries to convince others that she isn't Aubrey... but is Aubrey really just pretending to be someone else? Is she suffering from a psychological problem triggered by her kidnapping and torture? Or could Dakota really perhaps be a real person? Watch and find out.<br /><br />After seeing the trailer for this movie, I knew I had to see it. I'm not a fan of Lohan particularly, but this film looked good. Unfortunately, it has its ups and downs, but overall I thought it was a pretty good horror/thriller. The plot is original in its essential form, but does contain some clichés here and there - all things considered though, this is an original premise that deals with certain scenarios not often seen in cinema (if at all). It's a mystery film, and it did do a very solid job at keeping the viewer guessing. The expected twists and turns take place as well, and I thought for the most part the plot twists were fairly well thought-out. You don't really know what to think or expect for the first hour or so, as the story is pieced together linking Aubrey and Dakota, and whether or not they are in fact one person. I did become a little confused at moments, and there were a few plot holes (which I expected considering the complex storyline), but overall I didn't see anything that affected the course of the movie. Things pieced together fairly nicely before anything became too much of a problem, but there were some holes that needed filling.<br /><br />Another thing that succeeds in this movie is the cinematography, it was really beautifully shot. Color (mainly the color blue) plays a vast amount of significance in the story, and while it is there for a purpose, it almost seems too obvious because the color pops up continuously in practically every scene. Still, beautiful cinematography and some stylish editing get good points in my book, and this movie had both. Even in the sexual stripteases done by the Dakota character (where Lindsay's body is the main focus), the color use and cinematography shine. Good soundtrack as well that plays along with the flow of the film quite well, and really adds to the movie's energy. I was surprised at the amount of violence in this movie, but don't dismiss it if you are thinking it's something along the lines of a blatant torture flick, because this movie has a lot more to it than just that, unlike the recent trend of horror flicks that are nothing but one big gory torture show. "I Know Who Killed Me" manages to pack some suspense and tension that are vital to a good horror and/or thriller, and there were quite a few really scary scenes. Strangely enough, there is some unexpected humor to be found in the movie as well. One scene in particular was really quite funny, and while I'm not sure if it made the film less believable or was in it's favor, I know it made me laugh a few times.<br /><br />As for the acting, I think a lot of people are slamming this movie unfairly because of it's lead actress, Lindsay Lohan. Whatever the reason that some may despise her, I'll put it like this - if it were another actress playing the lead, people wouldn't be as harsh as they are. Honestly, I think Lindsay gave one of the best performances of her career (so far) in this movie. Her previous films mainly consist of pointless teeny-bopper trash, so I respect her for doing something with a little more depth, and while her acting and delivery is a bit flat on occasion, she carries this movie well. Julia Ormand and Neil McDonaugh play her concerned and confused parents, and both do a good job in their roles too. As for the big secret ending (which I won't reveal here), I thought it was fitting. The showdown between Lindsay and the killer, while a bit contrived, was pretty scary, as was the villain. The explanation behind the Aubrey/Dakota mystery was really strange, and I wasn't expecting it to turn out the way it did, but I think that's a good thing. It may be a bit of a stretch for some because of the obscure subject (and the revelation seemed to kind of come out of nowhere), but I liked it for being different and not what I'd normally expect in a twist ending.<br /><br />Overall, "I Know Who Killed Me" is a different but original horror/thriller. Cinematography was excellent, the storyline (while a little problematic at times) was original and very intriguing, there are some pretty creepy scenes, and the big plot twist was different from the norm. The acting wasn't that bad either, don't judge the movie by it's lead actress - I'm not a big fan of her either, but I found her to be fairly solid here. Recommended to horror and thriller fans if you're interested in a bit of a strange but nonetheless interesting movie. It's got a few plot holes and problems, but as I see it, the good outweighed the bad, and I was happy with the two hours I spent at the theater. 7/10.