There have been quite a number of comments here which either praise this movie to the heights (making it sound like the second coming of "Citizen Kane"), or note that it really, really sucks (making it the resurrected corpse of "Howard the Duck"). Variety, Extremes: Isn't that one of the things that makes us humans great?<br /><br />I tend to take a more moderate position on this film, though far closer to the sugar end than the fuzzy end of the lolly-pop. This film has some wonderful things going for it: Some brilliant casting (Nicol Williamson is incredible--Helen Mirren terrific), great use of music (I don't care for Wagner, but his bombast is perfect for this movie. Carl Orff was a good choice as well), some beautiful cinematography and sets (some scenes almost take my breath away, like when The Sword is thrown into the water), imagination (I've never seen intercourse in full armor before), and a great story.<br /><br />Unfortunately, it also has some bad casting (who in the world picked Cherie Lunghi to play Guenevere?--flower child as mythological queen? They could have done better by Lancelot as well), a few not so great lines, and, worst of all, the pacing is often too frenetic. If one is going to film the entire Arthurian legend, there is no way you can squeeze it into 2 hours and 20 minutes--not and have coherence. Some have said it was too LONG, and I can understand why they might come to that conclusion--so many scenes, so much plot thrown at us, that for some it must have had a dulling effect. The mind can only absorb so much in 2 & 1/3 hours. So cut it down so there isn't SO much to take in. Understandable, but the wrong remedy. It should have been extended by at least an hour, giving us more time to appreciate all the beauty, all the personalities (Merlin could have used more screen time, and some of the Knights could have stood further development), all the carnage, all the story in this film. Still, the good out weighs the bad by a considerable amount, imho. I can't help feeling disappointed, though. Just a few changes and we would be talking about the film in the same breath as "Casablanca," "Vertigo," or "The Third Man." Too bad. We could always use another masterpiece. [8.5 out of 10]