Ok. I haven't seen any others so, maybe that is faint praise. However, it is in my top 20 of all-time and I have seen thousands of movies. I would like to comment on some of the other comments I have read here about Excalibur as much as the movie itself. Someone mentioned the music was "ok". It's freakin Wagner!!! It is fabulous for this movie. I don't think a composer alive or at the time of the movie's release (1981) could have created a better original score for the movie. I think Wagner is used better here than in the chopper scene in Apocolypse Now and that is high praise indeed, because that is one of the most magnificent scenes in all of film. You like action? You like fantasy, sex, or blood? Well this is the movie for you. I don't understand what all the fuss is about the sex. It is integral to the plot. Uther's lust destroyed the peace and provided the seed that became Arthur. Arthur' betrayal by Guinevere and Lancelot leads him to be seduced by his half-sister Morgana and impregnate her with Mordred his eventual death sentence. Thankfully, the scenes are erotic and beautifully filmed in stark contrast to the dark and grim life these people lead when not killing. The acting is pretty good as far as I am concerned. I loved Nicol Williamson's Merlin, he is hilarious and eccentric. Helen Mirren's Morgana is sexy and evil. Paul Geoffrey's Perceval ages like 20 years in about 25 minutes and is quite believable. The Boorman family is quite good especially Katrine Boorman as Igrayne (she dances and heaves very well). Her sister Telsche Boorman was the Lady of the Lake and her brother was young Mordred who taunts Perceval. The movie is beautifully lit and has many powerful scenes and images that other better known movies cannot match. I am amazed at the power Boorman was able to capture in many scenes especially the Lady of the Lake, the Last battle, and sunrise boat farewell. Maybe the most amazing thing is how Boorman got so much action and story into so little time (around 2hrs and 15 minutes). He tells the stories of Uther, Merlin, Arthur, Mordred, Morgana, Perceval, Lancelot, and Guenevere, when a single story about any one of them could make up a 90 minute movie. Some in this forum have bitched about the short strokes he makes in characterizations, but he is very deft at telling you enough to push the story along. If you want to know more about a specific character, go read a book about that character. Don't expect to find it all here. Especially a secondary character like Morgana (who is important, but the name of the movie is excalibur, woman will take a backseat in this phallic world, thank you very much). I cry at the end of this movie everytime I see it and part of the reason is because I am sad at the death of Arthur who legend or not was a great man. The other reason is because this is almost perfection in film and it is rarely achieved and it deserves to be appreciated. This is what movies are all about loss, power and redemption, all filmed in breathtaking beauty.