Danika (Marisa Tomei) is a thirty-five years old overprotective mother with a beautiful family composed by her successful husband Randy (Craig Bierko), two sons - the teenager Kurt (Kyle Gallner) and the little Brian (Ridge Canipe), and one teenager daughter - Lauren (Nicki Prian). Danika is disturbed and near a breakdown, having dark and terrifying nightmares and daydreams; distracted in her work and consequently committing mistakes; and under psychiatric treatment with Dr. Evelyn (Regina Hall). Her problem was originated when her husband cheated her with the nanny of their children, breaking her confidence on him. The lack of attention caused by her disturbed mind leads her family to a tragedy.<br /><br />"Danika" is an impressive and challenging American dark movie showing the complexity of the human mind. My interpretation of the story is very simple: after finding her beloved husband cheating her with the nanny of their children, Danika becomes an insecure, stressed and overprotective mother, affecting her professional life. While in her treatment with Dr. Evelyn, she revives her innermost hidden fears about the lack of confidence in her husband. This situation is very clear when Randy tells that she cannot forget and forgive him, after the incident with the police. Danika insists on not having a maid to help her, and while having a daydream driving her car with her children, she does not pay attention in the traffic light and is hit by a school bus, killing her children, but surviving. When the reporter asks the paramedic if she would survive, the other man responds "yes", but asks "how could she live?". She asks for her children and her imagination sees her happy family together again. In the last scene, we see the reality, i.e., how she survived, deranged and homeless. I am a fan of Marisa Tomei, and in "Danika" she is simply brilliant. The promising director Ariel Vromen and the writer Joshua Leibner have great beginning of career in the cinema industry. My vote is seven.<br /><br />Title (Brazil): "Danika"