If you ever had the chance to watch more than one episode from a mexican soapbox opera, then you've seen this movie already. This "film" caused such a bliss here in México just because the female lead role, Patricia Llaca, appears full naked at the beginning; you wanna know what's the worst thing about it? that the nakedness doesn't play any key role on the developing of the plot beyond letting us know that two people are having a sexually driven affair. The same dialogue could have been chat in a café, playing tennis or just smoking, and everything would have been the same. And both parts are married by the way, and I'm not quite sure if that's why the producers said that the film was on the brink from being censured (?), or was it because the movie poster has a photo that shows Llaca's butt cheeks? I mean, come on! I really hope that any foreign people who get to read this doesn't get the wrong impression of mexican culture, thinking about us as retrogressive people 'cause we're not. Well, maybe just a little fraction of our society. But let's move on to the film.<br /><br />First of all, I wanna let know that there's some very good mexican movies out there that I love, so it's not that I dislike in prejudice everything done in here, but, really, watching La habitación azul was a big mistake. Most part of the actors are from the soapbox opera mafia that controls our TV media -which means they can hardly act-, so I should've been warned by that; but then, there´s also in La habitación... a couple of good actors -like Damián Alcázar- that I enjoy watching at work. But then again, it seems that mediocrity -starting from the director´s own- surpassed by much the talent of the few brilliant involved, so the result is a boring movie that even some people have the nerve to call "a thriller". Is La habitación azul a thriller? then where was the thrill? or did I get lost? when? Suspense has the book The blue room by George Simenon, in which the movie is based upon, but this film a thriller? I don´t think so. It's nothing but a bunch of fake drama and zero suspense, no twists, no key parts demanding our brain to work, and no thrills at all!!!!! By half the movie we had lost any interest we may have had about the characters and their so in risk future. Of course there are some minor intrigues, absurd killings, and shallow secrets, but that doesn't create suspense by themselves, these are just TOOLS waiting for someone that can handle them in a wise manner, and based on the facts, Doehner couldn't. La habitación azul is nothing more than the usual stuff we get to see via those brainless, dramaless and hollow episodes of each soapbox opera that our TV networks puts on the air.<br /><br />