A radiant Claudette Colbert stars in this first version of "Imitation of Life" along with Louise Beavers. The movie seems more earthbound and realistic than its more well-known, glamorous Ross Hunter remake. The stories differ as well. In this version, Colbert is not an aspiring actress, but a saleswoman who enters into business with Beavers, who, though it's her pancake recipe, for some reason is entitled to only 20% of the profits. As a black friend of mine described this story, "Claudette Colbert steals Louise Beavers' pancake recipe but allows her to live in her home." Not actually true as the Beavers character refuses to take any money or establish herself in her own home, and Colbert must bank the money for her. Sadly, this seems to be because the Beavers character has accepted her downtrodden role in life.<br /><br />Some of the dialogue by today's standards is truly shocking and, let's face it, politically incorrect as well as downright insulting to Afro-Americans. For this reason, it is an interesting look at life for blacks in those days and makes a disturbing statement. However, the affection the women have for each other, the confidence-swapping friendship, the fact that they do go into business together, and their daughters' friendship speak of things that transcend race and make a wonderful, contrasting statement.<br /><br />There are excellent performances by Ned Sparks and Warren William. William is another interesting artifact of the time, the mustached, elegant leading man in the tradition of John Gilbert that went out of style eventually.<br /><br />In real life, the beautiful black actress, Fredi Washington, who played Peola, refused to "pass" and lost out on a huge career, as she was told by producers that, if she passed for white, her star would shine as bright as the biggest stars of the day. Because she did not play white characters, Fredi Washington had to darken her skin with makeup in films so that she could play blacks. Hallie Berry can thank Washington for her career along with Dorothy Dandridge.