One can make a case that this film about the African - American racial realities of the New Deal period is the equivalent of "House Of Rothschild", a contemporary movie regarding Jews and anti-Semitism. Both movies are very well-intentioned for their day, but are somewhat appalling for the present day. "House Of Rothschild" had great performances by George Arliss as Nathan Rothschild, and Boris Karloff as his German foe, the bigoted Baron Ledranz. But it suggested that the key to the emancipation of the Jews (and their acceptance by gentile society) was tied to economic success and power. This ignored the roots of anti-Semitism in economic jealousy by non-Jews. In "Imitation Of Life", we see two poor single mothers, one white and one black, each with a daughter, who form a partnership that enriches them with an "Aunt Jemimah" baking empire. But in the real world, how frequently did white and black people cooperate that closely when millions of dollars were at stake? The ideas, however, of this film are not easy to reject totally. Forgetting the idea of inter-racial economic cooperation and money making, the idea that a white and a black woman could become close is not totally impossible, and the issues of the problems both women have with their daughters are still relevant.<br /><br />Claudette Colbert (Bea Pullman) and her daughter Rochelle Hudson (Jessie) find that they become rivals for Warren Williams (Steve Archer). The rivalry of the pair for the same man is not uncommon, and the sad resolution of the problem seems unfair to Bea. Wisely the script does not settle what the future will prove about this collision of sexual hopes.<br /><br />No such problem faces Louise Beavers (Delilah Johnson) and Freddie Washington (Peola). Beavers is a hard working, decent woman who is fully aware of what the average White person expects of a Black person's "attitudes" in the America (or Western World) of 1934. Subserviance is the key for survival. Beavers, in the story, is luckier than most of her people because she has made a large amount of money as Colbert's business partner. But she can only get so far with that advantage - she can't live in a mansion and hobnob with the social elite. But she doesn't really seem to care to. The old (and infuriating) phrase about "knowing her place" is acceptable to her. But Peola is light skinned, and can pass herself off as white. She desperately wants to do so - to "sneak" (for want of a better term) herself into the majority of the population, with all the attending economic, political, and social advantages. And Bea wants Peola to accept her racial difference.<br /><br />Today, of course, we feel that it is the sin of the society penalizing millions of non-whites that is the terrible wrong, not Peola's desperate attempt to grab at happiness. But in 1934 it was Peola who was found to be wrong. Her selfishness leads to killing the saintly, decent Delilah, and Peola realizes this at the conclusion - at her mother's funeral.<br /><br />Before leaving this I have to point out that Peola's gamble probably would have been difficult in the long run. In the 1920s, New York society was shocked and titillated by the Kip Rhinelander Divorce Scandal. The son of a wealthy old New York family, Rhinelander married a very attractive woman. Then their child turned out to be African-American. The resulting divorce action was very ugly. If Peola married a white man, she would run a similar risk (as would all "white" descendants of the couple) due to genetics. Oddly enough, this particular situation is not a dated story theme. On an episode of LAW AND ORDER about six years ago, the murder of a woman was tied to her trying to regain her son by her ex-husband: the husband (like Peola) could pass himself off as white, and was a high ranking business executive with a new wife, who was white, and also a bigot.<br /><br />Among other things to note in this film is the use of the "Aunt Jemimah" clone in 1934 - a key to the long term success of that brand with the American public (and one that still exists), and the business deal that Ned Sparks and Colbert are negotiation with a clone of General Mills or some other food conglomerate. The funeral of Delilah also is notable, for the appearance of members of the Black Middle class in the scenes, in particular the men in quasi-military uniforms who must belong to some "mason" like club, and who give the deceased a goodbye beneath their outstretched military sabers. The appearance of Preston Sturges as one of the screenplay writers suggests some of the touches - Sturges liked to poke fun at well known brand names. In "Christmas In July", for instance, the coffee company is Maxford's (like Maxwell House).<br /><br />I find this a well acted and thoughtful movie for 1934, and yes, Louise Beavers did give her most tragic performance in this film. But the acceptance of racial inequalities that really are not acceptable anymore (although much improvement is still needed) does stick in one's craw.