Pointless, juvenile, absolutely worthless(..unless you just have an urge to see stars from the original returning to reprise their roles)sequel to the original Sleepaway Camp(..the second and third films featuring Pamela Springsteen in the "prominant" role of Angela are completely disregarded, which is probably a good thing, I guess)has a psycho-killer, in black hoody, targeting those who victimize and mistreat extremely repellent frog-devoted Allan(Michael Gibney), always the center of negative attention in regards to practically everyone, in constant disagreements, arguments, and skirmishes with the teenagers/adults in camp. He's either starting trouble or the recipient of it, but Allan is certainly a lightning rod towards the inner-workings of the plot..the film displays many embarrassing scenarios featuring the flabby whiner and people die because this. When the mean teenagers belittle and abuse him, Allan retreats into the woods to find refuge with his frogs. Allan has a crush on Karen(Erin Broderick)who assists her friends in playing a practical joke leaving him quite scorned resulting in quite the killing spree towards those who delighted in his misery. A penis is pulled from a counselor whose bound, by rope, to a tree. A female counselor gets her head and face twisted in barbwire while attempting to flee in a jeep. A black teen girl, often at heated odds with Allan, is squashed by a mattress of nails. The head counselor over the Camp has his head caught in a cage after awakening from a hammer blow to the head, tied, with rats to feed through his face, shown gnawing within his torso. One pot-smoking slacker is burned alive after being force-fed gasoline, with his stomach exploding. A real practical joker who often bullied Allan gets a wooden spike stabbed through his eye. And, a vulgar cook who ridiculed Allan endlessly, gets his face shoved into cooking grease. Lots of of-screen violence, but some gore should please those who found the original SC lacking in this department.<br /><br />Fans of the franchise(..which I'm not)might find this irresistible, because RETURN feels positively dated, attempting futilely(..in my opinion, at least)at sophomoric humor, failing miserably. Cast of really obnoxious teens and profane adults couldn't die fast enough as far as I was concerned. Perhaps many will feel this captures the wacky spirit of the original, RETURN is an aimless exercise highlighting the crude and unruly behavior/shenanigans of the camp's teenagers..the adults who are supposed to be in charge of supervising these brats are about as bad, if not worse. The film feels like it was written by 13 year olds and we are witnesses to wedgies, lighted farts, fat-jokes/gags, and other grating activities. As I pointed out already, I'm pretty sure a whole bawdy crowd will embrace this with open arms just for it featuring returning "stars", Paul DeAngelo as counselor Ronnie(..still in stunning athletic shape, but still lacking in the acting department), Jonathan Tiersten as Ricky(..blond this time, still needing his mouth washed out with soap)and special guest Felissa Rose as Angela in a cameo(..and in another secret role as well). WE have a sheriff often popping up after murders take place trying to keep everyone civil as a killer is on the loose. The identity of the killer will surprise no one unless you are REALLY that gullible and/or easily fooled. Sad and unfortunate, this was Isaac Hayes' last role, playing a very disgruntled cook. Vincent Pastore is the lead camp counselor with a special fondness for his pet bird he often embraces with a kiss.