This movie is just awful. I can just imagine the "behind the scenes" dialogue while making this picture: "this is going to be such a cute movie, the story is so cute, the dialogue is so cute, the actors are so cute, the acting is so cute, no the acting is so dynamic, it's going to be such a hit with the audience: being so piquant and lovely, and yet so comical........" I don't know too much about the Back Street Boys, except that they're famous, now I realize they must have made some money and thought they were going to make a classic film, they were wrong, money doesn't always translate into good taste. The only thing going right for this movie, in spite of the script was the actor that played the lawyer/fiancé, otherwise the acting was non existent. The actor who played the lead was a little too old to be playing this type of "dork", he elicited no charm what-so ever, which was supposed to be the desired aim I suppose. An example being the sequence at the girls house after the first date to the bar, which was rather lame as far as the story and especially the acting goes. The actress who plays the lead was pretty, but was "no actor", the mother had the handicap of delivering bad dialogue, as did all the actors for that fact. The writing was "sooo" atrocious, I realize that screenwriters have a certain latitude when writing the story but, this story was pushing the envelope a wee bit too much: The mother starts in on a long diatribe on the matter of love the moment she meets the husband to be, also the cooking host on TV says this is a "family show" but continually uses the "F" word, or can you just imagine a man stalking a house in the bushes in broad daylight in an upscale neighborhood and all the neighbor could say was "you asshole", also how did they get the time to fix the truck and also not be seen, so it could stop on cue and how did Keeler get the time to get into the back of the van; where were the police and why was the couple moving themselves, don't lawyers make any money in Florida? (silly question). The passing the stone scenario was especially supercilious and a little too "ick/ooh-ish". What was the bit about the Back Street Guy as a DJ about, was that acting or what? Also why was the Host at the bar portrayed as being swishy, most gay guys are not swishy, stereo-typing for a cheap laugh I guess. And the bit about the cutesy type dog store was sort of gagging, but as I read the credits, was or is a real store in Florida, (up-chuck time). If you're going to spend a lot of money to make a decent movie, be sure to get a good writer and director, otherwise as in this case you wind up with this type of movie which I think can be best be described as "LAME".