What can I say to decry this artistic atrocity that has not already been said? Certainly it is worthwhile to repeat the complaint that the racist producers of this shameful exploitation of a beloved book series and it's author's good name to make money with no concern for quality or pleasing viewers. To make all the black heroes of the books white for the movie, leaving only one token black character is inexcusable. What possible reason could there be for this whitening of the cast besides racism? I challenge anyone to give me one good reason for changing all the black protagonists to white. They can't do it because there is no possible good reason. Again, this is racism, plain and simple. By the way, I am a white curly blonde haired guy myself, all the more reason to feel shame and sorrow that our society is still this openly racist. <br /><br />But here's a point no other reviewer seemed to notice. In the last shot (check it, tivoers) after the hero and heroine kiss for no good reason (spontaneous horniness brought on by increased universal harmony presumably causing all nearby to pair up and go at it) the soldiers surrounding the temple suddenly start to hug each other for no apparent reason. Perhaps the universal harmony horniness has hit them too. Are we to imagine a giant orgy followed? If not, then why the sudden kissing and hugging? I guess the producers needed a neat and simple way to show that all is well, so they slap on a clichéd movie/TV ending with everyone kissing and hugging despite there being no reason for it in the plot. Or perhaps they just needed a way to explain away the warrior subplot they invented for the miniseries. Having no resolution to it they show the soldiers breaking out in a group hug-fest so we will understand that their quest for world domination ended in the big universal harmony wave. I am truly disgusted and offended by this piece of excrement, but at least I got one good laugh at the thought of the soldier's orgy. Anyone else notice this?