I am a very tolerant viewer. I enjoy almost every film I see, even if it is not the best film ever made. However, this motion picture directly challenges the tolerance that I have for filmed entertainment. "Strategic Command" is easily THE WORST film I have ever had the misfortune to watch. It is an almost identical clone to the vastly superior "Executive Decision" with elements from "The Rock" thrown in to try and (In a pathetic attempt if I may add.) to distinguish it from the aforementioned films. Although there are some differences in the film (The jet that docks with the 747 in "Strategic Command" is an SR-71 while the jet in "Executive Decision" is an F-117.), these differences are not enough to keep the film from being a mediocre imitation. Special effects are mostly poorly executed, although some of the matte shots did seem convincing. Parts of the film where some of the bad guys and a good guy vomits looked like they put an Alka Seltzer tablet in their mouth and would spit the foam out at the right time to emulate vomit. Some of the footage of the F-16s, both interior and exterior, were taken directly from the film "Iron Eagle" so as to save money on the limited production budget. Acting is another weak point, with people playing their parts too hard. As a result, the characters become unconvincing and lifeless. The only good actor in the film was Paul Winfield. I was shocked to see how low Mr. Winfield sunk, his acting talent could've served in better films than this. The film's only saving grace is the musical score, sounding better than most other low budget and even some high budget films. However, it seems that the composer was trying to emulate and, in some parts of the suite, combine the styles Jerry Goldsmith and James Horner. Most of the suite, although is surprisingly good for a no-name composer, is mostly unoriginal and uninspired. Overall, "Strategic Command" is a mediocre facsimilie of "Executive Decision". This is a film that deserves to stay in a vault and rot away. The video does not deserve to be purchased, even five dollars for this movie is highway robbery! This picture can, at the very best, serve as a rental, but there are better choices at the video store. Besides, this film is nothing but two hours of your life that can be spent watching a better film. After seeing this review, your brain should be giving an excellent "Strategic Command" to steer clear of this stinker! - Reinhart