if you're considering seeing this movie for its political / cultural message, don't waste you're time. you're IQ will actually lose 5 points from viewing it. if you know anything about skinheads, white racialism, etc, you will instantly see problems with the movie that discredit the entire thing. for example, why does the main character have an AWB(Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging) tattoo? hes from new york, not south Africa, i fail to see how he'd have a strong enough connection to the Afrikaner resistance movement that he would tattoo their symbol to his body? its there because it looks something like a Swazi, although its really 3 number 7's connected, meaning 777 from Christian dogma. the only other reason he may have this tattoo is for its connection to the racialist group blood and honor, a group that also uses this logo sometimes. why he would get a tattoo of this group, which is still in existence and in many nations, i have no idea. there is no way the character portrayed in this movie would be a blood and honor member, for reasons too numerous for me to bother with here. also, when he attends the "skinhead retreat", they show a female with a completely bald head, as if she just had cancer treatments. this is another piece of sensationalism. while National socialist skinheads often are guilty of misrepresenting skinhead style and fashion, this is a silly exaggeration. however its meant to jump out at people who know nothing about these scenes, and take advantage of their ignorance. what about him walking around Manhattan with a Swazi shirt, him and his blatantly Nazi buddies walking around Manhattan drinking etc? the traditional skinhead scene in Manhattan is huge, and violent. they basically cleaned out the Nazi skinhead scene YEARS ago, and the remnants rarely if ever present themselves this way. maybe he could walk around like this for days, weeks maybe months and have no problems, but the truth is this is another bit of sensationalism. you just don't see this like the movie tries to portray it. as if this movie wasn't unrealistic enough. so, he gets caught with the Torah in his room, his fascist girlfriend finds it, and he makes her get dressed because being nude in front of it is a sin, according to Judaism. then he begins to read it to her, in Hebrew, and teach her Hebrew. so, this doesn't send up any red flags to her at all? I'm sorry but I'm sick of these sun dance winner movies being touted as great works of cinema, when they are really just awful white guilt trips. now i wasn't able to sit through the entire thing, but I'm going to guess that this movie totally avoided the fact that the vast majority of American skinheads are traditional, in the sense that they are not politically affiliated, are non racist, and are actually respectable members of the community. i wonder if i made a movie that showed Hasidim Jew's as only diamond smugglers and Zionist supremacists, would that win a sun dance award? there are a few scenes that cinematic ally are good, the opening scene is exciting and almost hard to watch, the fight at the retreat is good. there is some truth to the way NS skinheads are portrayed. other than those, i fail to see what made this film an award winner. seriously, don't waste your money like i did on this one folks, it stinks of agenda.