This has to be one of the biggest wastes of money, time and effort ever! Director William Malone did an entertaining job before this mess with the remake House On Haunted Hill, but here the story has clearly got the better of him and everyone involved! Meaning that there is no story, of course! It's a rambling mess of set pieces that have no tension and zero scare factor. Stephen Dorff is one of those actors who needs to fire his agent, he is talented and easy on the eye, and has made some good films like Blood and Wine, and World Trade Centre. Still, more often than not we find him in the midst of films such as this and Alone In The Dark, where he so obviously is searching for a way out, presumably so he can kill his agent! Natasha McElhone is an actress who's work I genuinely enjoy, films such as The Truman Show and Ladies In Lavender show how good she can be. The poor thing had no chance, she looks worried for her reputation the entire running time ... and please dear, who goes swimming in some flooded factory with a homeless woman as your lifeguard?! And why were you asking her questions about some girl? Oh, sorry Natasha, you didn't know either did you? Stephen Rea ... I can't even think of why he is here ... no excuse at all. After this and In Dreams (a big mistake for Neil Jordan!) he is gonna need about 10 movies as good as Interview With The Vampire, The Crying Game and The End Of The Affair for him to sink his acting chops into again, before he can wash the taste of this experience out of his mouth! Cinematography was basic, and effects were so forced as to make me wonder if the film was set in the future. It's not, it's trying to push for a reaction to the growing threats that the internet can bring on society, but instead it looks terribly dated. Commentory from the director is useless ... he talks of mixing old and new looks ... blah blah blah, it didn't work Billy, your film makes everyone look like they need a good wash and a shot of tequila ... if only to wake up from the nightmare of being in this stupid, incoherent story! Phew, so glad to have got that off my chest ... please save yourselves and don't see this film. To follow what I could of the films "it'll be the last site you visit" story ... this could be the last film you watch ... that's how much it will make you cry for the state of cinema!