Oh well. Talk about trying to be "Walkabout" and "Hiroshima Mon Amour" and completely failing. Sure, the script must have been good reading, so you would think with the right director and the right film crew this would turn out to be OK, but no, this is what you call poorly executed and poorly conceived. I do understand what it was trying to say, but I just think that the whole of the first half should've been done with much more attention to the detail of the characters' feelings and dug deeper into their emotions further. I think the director has good intentions but did not quite deliver on this part. The film should've been called "Australian Story" to make more sense of the lopsided and biased view of what the Aussies perceive to be the strange cultural behaviour of the Japanese - after all, the whole film depends upon a Western view of the woman looking at this strange man from the Far East who seem to have no cause or reason to be wandering about the Outback other than the fact that he can. Whether the last third of the film explains his reasons for being there or not, the film should've focused much more on what she needs, what she is experiencing and should've explained a lot more of her backstory of who she is as an Aussie geologist, rather than let them both be strangely stranded "tourists" who are seeking for some sort of direction from the plot!!! The performances were stilted and without much heart, Collette looked like she was just sort of skimming through all of her scenes and dialogue as if she was rather not bothered about being in this film. Tsunashima did his best to behave like the Japanese caricature that the filmmaker wanted, and of course same goes for the wife and the whole setup in the last third of the film. At the end, I wandered why they bothered to make this film at all, as it probably reads much better than it does as a film. Perhaps if another, more accomplished artist's hands had got hold of it, the film would've turned out to be an interesting film in character study, but the photography is bland, the music is typically "American Beauty" ripped and tinny, and the direction and editing are completely unimaginative. They could've done so much with some truly spaced-out scenes of desperation in the dessert, but somehow everything is conveniently moved along and that only leaves the viewer scratching their heads wandering why they bothered at all. The film tries to drive some meaning into the reasons for these two to be out there in the wild for emptiness in significance of their own lives, but the cultural complications are brushed aside because the filmmakers do not quite get why there is any of that sort of experience in the first place for these characters who should not have had any need to spend any time out there at all. For Collette's character to give in to his demands so easily after having said her piece about not going out there, and then to complain about what he did to them out there, and then not to explain why she even has this job and what it really means - might have been a much more interesting film if the Japanese guy had to find his own way around, and had met a strange woman in the desert with whom he plays, instead of having this geologist lead the way. Poor poor effort.