The base story features Adam, a security guard, who travels from California to the Philippines to attend his father's funeral. Shortly after his arrival in Manilla, a phone rings in his backpack. He answers it. A male voice tells him that his mother and sister are captives and will be killed if he (Adam) doesn't cooperate. The voice proceeds to send Adam by bus, taxi, motorized tricycle, and on foot through an urban landscape of busy streets, cramped apartments, a squatters' camp, a bank, a cockfighting arena, and a church. Adam's conversations with the voice cover murder, Islam, jihad, rebellion in Mindanao, and his family.<br /><br />Adam is commanded by the voice to engage in terrorist acts against innocent civilians in order to save his mother and sister. Moreover, the voice extorts Adam of money his deceased father had saved for him, his mother and sister. Like most persons in Adam's situation, Adam is compelled by fear to save his mother and sister, and comply with the voice's command. The movie is based on a TRUE story.<br /><br />Based on the story of the movie and common perceptions about current events, you may come to the conclusion that this movie deals with terrorism sponsored by Islamic extremists. The disturbing reality is that governments and, in particular, intelligence agencies, e.g. CIA, are the ONLY organizations so well-financed, methodical, callous and evil as to perpetrate such criminal acts. Ask yourself - How is the voice aware of Adam's whereabouts at every juncture in the movie? How is the voice aware of the money left by Adam's father to Adam? Why would the voice go ahead and torture Adam's mother and sister? The answer is that organizations such as the CIA are terrorizing innocent individuals and families to foment division among people, to induce individuals (fearing harm to their own family members, and indeed fearing God) to commit crimes on behalf of these organizations even as they fully believe that it is an Islamic extremist group. More disturbing than this fact alone, they can actually cause an individual to hear voices within their own mind (even though the movie depicted the use of cell phones). Indeed, they have the technology to see from the eyes and hear from the ears of nearly every individual in the world born in a hospital.<br /><br />Let's be clear about it: God is about LOVE, not HATE. Wake up to the reality - seek the truth!