In a movie that's just 10 days to make and with just roughly $7,000 budget, one would think there's not much to anticipate. But with creativity and an inventive idea, this movie takes micro financed film-making to the next level. Only Blair Witch Project (1999) thus far, pulled off a feat to beat under similar circumstances. With the advent of digital technology, film-making becomes more and more accessible even to dropouts Ian Gamazon and Neill dela Llana. A perfect blueprint to filmmaker hopefuls who haven't the means but the idea, "Cavite" is bold, cunning and still thrills.<br /><br />A movie that will keep foreign tourists off Cavite or worse, the Philippines as a whole, "Cavite" is more than just a political thriller exposing as well the dreadful scenario in the outskirts of Metro Manila, which can also be the case in most parts of the country, projecting an image ten times worthy of what Claire Danes had to say about Manila. Though some shocking claims in the movie about the country are exaggerated and inaccurate, disturbing scenes captured reveal realities that can never be denied exist. Either Filipinos are unaware of all these or apathetic already.<br /><br />Adam (Gamazon) is working at a San Diego Harbor as a Security Guard, which allows plenty of time for him to play video games and watch his belly balloon. His mother calls from the Philippines informing him his father has been killed in a bus bombing. His girlfriend in the meantime has decided to have an abortion informing him eventually. His spirits dampened, Adam takes on a flight to the Philippines via Taipei. Deciding to attend his father's funeral, Adam arrives at the Ninoy Aquino International Airport now waiting to be picked up when a cell phone rings, which he promptly realizes to be inside his backpack enveloped along with some pictures of his mother and sister who an Abu Sayyaf member on the other line says have been kidnapped by their group. Now Adam is coerced to follow his instructions or his family will be killed.<br /><br />Riding a jeepney as instructed, Adam is led down the streets of Cavite City. He is introduced to the populated city slums where the toilet is just mostly anywhere, solid wastes float alongside children swimming on swamps, children ready to sell themselves for prostitution abound, and extreme poverty is sweeping. On foot traversing the lengths of the sunny city, Adam is tested in ways both silly and horrendous as to how far he can go to save his family. He later finds out the whole misfortune is to a certain extent linked to a vendetta for an act his father committed years back. In the end, Adam is made to do something he'll never forget.<br /><br />The movie illustrates how severe extremist rebels can be and how far they can go just to see their plans carried out. But more than that, the movie both rationalizes and criticizes terrorism in the country. The decades old rationale communicated to support terrorism is that Mindanao belongs to Muslims and people like the terrorist caller are doing everything just to get it back to them even if it means Jihad. A lapsed Muslim himself, Adam counters with an interesting definition of Jihad: "I struggle everyday of my life to better myself. That's Jihad, not the way you do it." The filmmakers maintain some interest with the terrorist caller detailing accounts of the many atrocities to the Muslim people in Mindanao to further the rationalization of terrorism. Not really taking sides, the movie in the end shows Adam's girlfriend Dana (Dominique Gonzalez) explaining why she had to abort the baby: "I panicked when I found out I was pregnant. You know, I'm ashamed for saying this and I'm even ashamed for thinking this, but I can't have a baby that's Muslim. I never thought I'd have to say that but I can't help the way I feel" Unpolished, the film is no way perfect. The terrorist caller has a number of minor Tagalog grammar lapses, not to mention his accent not distinctly native, thus a bit unpersuasive to those who really speak the language. The yellow subtitles (English translations of the terrorist caller's lines) show a few errors. One is on a line in a Parokya ni Edgar song Mr. Suave, which says: "habulin ng babae" Translation shows: "I chase all the ladies." But all these are barely discernible to foreign viewers and can even be dismissed if one thinks about what this movie has accomplished.<br /><br />Though already seen in various horror films, its edgy camera-work with no known focus is fitting, thus notable, enhancing the distress suggested by the situation. And though with the script still a bit amateurish, Gamazon somehow scores an almost convincing portrayal. Add to that the raw third world setting, which compliments the dread, presented in depressingly and dismally expository way. Above all, the message is channeled tactfully, thus swaying, going far beyond the bounds of being preachy.<br /><br />"Cavite" may not be a favorite of everyone, but it's an affirmation that one doesn't need to have millions of dollars to create suspense. And it sure has actuated someone into becoming a fan. That happens to be me. (toyski.com)