This miserably stale product coming from country's top movie production house is a surprise. A Desi Bonnie and Clyde, the film works neither as a drama, or a Love story or an adventure or even a comedy or a musical, but a confused haphazard product. The weakness lies basically in a thin story line, which an equally weak screenplay as well as uninteresting dialogs (surprisingly penned by ace writer Jaideep Sahni) doesn't bring impact. The finesse of taking shots by director Shaad Ali is also missing (compared to his previous "Saathiya"). A few opening scenes were okay which sets the tone of the film but later when the characters goes out of character, narration turns lifeless. Songs and Music is very mediocre and does not support narration. The only novelty is the experimental dig at paying tribute to the films of 1970s in terms of certain tacky sets, overdone-gaudy costumes, Dance movements as well as use of back projection in a scene could all have been inspiring and brought freshness if film has something to offer content wise but it all misfires as every thing here is so predictable that it kills the curiosity factor completely. The result- film fails as even a bizarre film or a roller-coaster road movie, or a mindless, tapori, immoral entertainment. Even, neat performances by the trio (Amitabh, Abhishek and Rani) also do not bring any magical moments, so vital for such film, which basically works on treatment of certain scenes. Also cameos done by host of talented actors viz. Raj Babbar, Prem Chopra, Ranjeet, Ravi Baswani, Rameshwari, Tania Zaetta, and above all an item number by Ms. Rai makes you wonder whether it is unemployment or insecurity which made them accept it. More than anything else, what surprised me most is the fact that all the telecast audience reactions or published reviews of this film talks about its certain qualities, which I only wish that this one possessed. Overall, true to its name, the reaction it evokes on watching is equivalent to burst of a bubble. While watching the only thing audience is waiting excitedly is Ghanti of The End.