Cavite, in its simplicity, is a provocative and insightful gem. This movie adeptly presents the complexities of culture and nationalism using parallels and metaphors interwoven in a culture few will encounter. The story's plot is simple enough- an Americanized Filipino American (Adam) whose life is in chaos returns to the Philippines to attend his fathers funeral, but instead, embarks on a horrific rescue mission to get his ransomed mother and sister back from the Abu Sayyaf, an extremist Muslim group. The violent tension in this movie is subtle and below the radar, but keeps the viewer watching. But it is the emotional tension- the play with expectations that breaks from being predictable; the killer who loves love songs, has a reassuring voice; Adam, the victim, is a non-violent Muslim; the grinding poverty and Adam's naivete; the kid who steals for the Abu Sayyaf steals to eat McDonalds. The backdrop of the plot is the forced education of Adam to a culture he has had no connections to. While for many Filipinos, this can be tedious, the depth of the movie begins to beg the question- who are the real hostages, and what will we do to save them.<br /><br />That the movie has a circular plot- it ends where it begins but with a twist- leaves the viewer forced to contemplate the significance, which can be profound, "dangerous" as some have described, but open to interpretation. This can be troubling to some who want to see movies that require no thought.<br /><br />Cinematically, the movie is remarkable, low budget or not. The shots are insightful and capture the reality of everyday life in a town greatly affected by poverty. One can almost smell the diesel fumes, the odors in the market and feel the tension of desperation. Because this is the personal story of Adam, a home-video feel to the footage adds to the credibility that this is his story.<br /><br />Most mainstream thrillers have something in their plot that is implausible, and this one is no exception- the everpresent killer, and that there is a Filipino who doesn't know what balut is.<br /><br />It is unfortunate the cover and sub-title imply Cavite is a Sylvester Stallone no-brainer which makes me wonder whether the brilliance of this movie was a result of the directors' intention. In any case, this movie is worth viewing for its creative display of a complex subject- but with a caveat- this movie presents a picture that is not characteristic of all life in the Philippines- something few viewers will take into account. This isn't the responsibility of the directors, however. It speaks to the fact that there are too few Filipino filmmakers.