This has to be one of the worst movies I have ever seen. I felt like I was back in film school, and the kid that you knew just wouldn't cut it showed us his project. Although, this kid for some odd reason was picked up by CAA. hmm something must be going on there. There are so many flaws with this movie I don't even know where to begin. The story: Wait what story? The beginning shows each character's (which might I add never have a name) shitty lives. There is ZERO character development so we never know why they are like they are nor do we know if they are happy or unhappy with themselves. If the director thought showing apathy on camera for 90 minutes straight was a good idea, he was sadly mistaken. If the latter is true, then why aren't they trying to change? You would suspect some sort of character arc would be nice, but that would be asking way too much from this movie. So if you are looking for a good script, you have found the wrong one. Sound Design: Again, I find myself in class, The Elements of Sound Design 101. Just pay attention to the footsteps. Enough said. Oh wait, and the trumpet. I believe since the budget was so low they had to ask someone's younger sister to just play for fun. Sounds like she had a great time! Cinematography: Well, it seems like they never knew which ISO film stock to use so they put all different kinds of film in a bag and played trick or treat! The inconsistency from scene to scene is enough to make your eyes bleed. Editing: I feel real bad for the editor. He didn't have much to work with. I wonder if he's ever heard of cutting on action? The shots last entirely way too long and when there finally is that cut you have been painfully waiting for it leaves you with a somewhat angry somewhat humorous thought in your mind. Acting: Considering there are approximately two ecu's and even the cu's are covered in grainy over exposed shots, you can only imagine what their reactions are. And if you are looking for someone to yell at the top of their lungs and throw stuff around like a three year old. You've come to the right place. This might not be all the actors fault, in fact I blame most of this on the director/writer. No offense to the acting, I just hope you don't use this on your reel. My final thoughts, If you want to see a movie that is at best, a C+ at SIU's sophomore film program, by all means watch it. I cannot wait to see what CAA produces from this disaster.