So what happens when you gather together a group of troubled teen undesirables (jocks, geeks, punks, cheerleaders, and dead-beats),a bumbling janitor, and a psychopathic homeroom teacher? You have the Canadian version of the Breakfast Club meets manically depressed Jason Voorhees.<br /><br />Basically, you have a group of troubled teens who have all been sentenced, for one reason or another, to an evening of detention... for an entire evening... at night... overnight, in fact... with no other guidance than from a manically depressed Vietnam veteran turned homeroom teacher. Now, first of all, who serves detention at night? That's just completely ridiculous. Second of all, before assigning the teacher with the task of being responsible for these kids, she lectures him for being such an awful teacher, stating that most of the other teachers and parents are fighting for his suspension. So, why would you give such a teacher the responsibility of taking care of these teenage hoodlums for an overnight detention period?! <br /><br />But that (sadly) is just about all the plot there is in this movie. The rest is just a lot of pointless banter among the students with a little mid-massacre romance thrown in just for kicks. The homeroom teacher simply goes berserk for no apparent reason and starts hacking away on the students, who seem to respond to his unprovoked homicidal nature with an incredible sense of disinterest. Just another day in the life of a Canadian high schooler, I suppose. The students are aided, albeit for an incredibly short period of time, by the school janitor (who really could pass for Star Trek's James Dahoon without the accent). The janitor, however, is killed early on after making no serious advancements in the plot. Eventually, after killing everyone except for the school's punk rock version of MacGyver (who just so happens to have an impromptu love affair with the school nerd while in hiding from their deranged professor), the homeroom teacher takes his own life with very little fanfare, slitting his own throat with a utility knife.<br /><br />The writing, I've decided, is nowhere near as poor as it's execution. The cast is entirely comprised of no-named actors and appear to be compiled of actual students of the high school in which they were shooting. Some of the actors were obviously being fed lines from behind the camera and it looked like some of them were reading from prompters through most of the entire movie. One girl in particular seemed incredibly disinterested through the whole thing and delivered such a lack-luster performance it was almost funny.<br /><br />That said, there really were no redeeming qualities about this movie and I even felt compelled to revive my unused account for this site just to explain how bad it really was! If you have considered watching this movie, I strongly suggest you don't. If you have considered spending money on this movie, I strongly suggest psychiatric help. And if you were one of the ones who helped to produce this movie, I would suggest you acquire legal guidance to have your names removed from the credits list.<br /><br />Other than that, it was great!