First let me start off by saying, i LOVE bad horror movies. i think movies like camp blood 2 and my bloody valentine, while being retarded, can be quirky and fun. So believe me when i tell you, that this is the WORST HORROR MOVIE EVER MADE. and i'm not saying this lightly. This film is atrocious. In order to review this film, the best place to start is the beginning. <br /><br />The first thing we are treated to is the title screen followed by A SHOT OF RUNNING. that's how the film opens. not a slow fade in with credits, nothing to prepare you, the obviously photo-shopped title and then RUNNING footage pasted on the screen. hoy boy this is gonna be horrible. we then learn that our band of heroes, who go to the community college of the cliché, (which by the way is one of the most deserted college hallways i've ever seen) as they decide how they're going to get a ride to the big concert. dorky mcdorkson (aka drew) offers the girls a ride to the concert, but uh oh, jockey ass-hat and the lovebirds want to tag along, but that's OK, why not. And so, they are off to the big concert. on the way, lover boy has to pee and then starts to make out with his girlfriend and they run out of gas. i just described to you about 10 minutes of the movie in those two sentences.<br /><br />There's no gas station for miles except the Shell seen in the distance, and i assume the group has some anti-shell policy, so they're stuck. until they see an old house in the middle of nowhere. awesome. so they decide to stop at the old house to find some gas. Drew is sent to go get gas by himself after losing a match of rock paper scissors. cause lord knows when i drive 4 random strangers to a concert for free i'm gonna do ANY of the legwork. As Drew looks around he finds an outdoor gas tank. being the nice guy he is, after he takes some gas, he leaves ten dollars. He walks off-screen, and you NEVER SEE HIM AGAIN. i'm dead serious. i assumed later, his dead body would show up, or he would be the killer or something imaginative, but no, he just disappears from the movie, most likely getting out while he could to save his acting career. After their friend drew doesn't come back, the rest of the group goes to look for him. for twenty whole minutes. oh boy. they barge into the house, search it, comment on the old toilet and rooms, the two lovebirds have fake taunting sex, the usual. the main girl and jock talk about something that i didn't even listen to, something about dreaming about playing in hay, i don't remember, i didn't care by this point. <br /><br />But wait! at that point we get the first and most exhilarating kill of the movie! after having good ol' fashioned tease loving, the lovebirds see the lights of a car turn on and think it's their good ol' friend drew. to prove that it is drew, the lovebird male (sighs) i'm not making this up, puts his hand in an inactive thresher and says "hey drew, if that's you, turn it on." seriously. does the killer even HAVE to TRY? leave them alone long enough and they'll just kill themselves. but the killer turns the thresher on and cuts off the kid's hand. and the kid dies instantly. cause you know, when you get your hand cut off, you die right away. medicine 101. after this starts lover girl's first of fifty million unbearable screams throughout the film. she finds the other girl who's boyfriend eventually gets stabbed with a screwdriver. the only other kill of the movie. yes this movie has a body count of a whopping 2. awesome. (drew doesn't count because he just left the movie) <br /><br />the girls meet up, run away, scream, run away, see him again, run away, and eventually have a final showdown where the killer, a mixture of the girl from the ring, Michael myers, and the butcher, who walks literally 1/4 of a mile an hour, gets nail-gunned to the head, not defending himself in the least. the cops then come and save the girls as the movie ends. and we still never see drew.<br /><br />This movie is so terrible, i'd rather see Halloween 3. It's excruciatingly boring, the characters are tired stereotypes that i'd rather just die than get to know them, the production quality is nonexistent, the killer is as appealing as a sack of wet newspaper, and the movie has no resolution of who the killer is or why. the closest thing we get is a girl who finds a newspaper clipping in the house that tells how a boy's parents were killed by robbers who tried to steal gas. how convenient. only DREW PAID FOR THE GAS! this movie has so many plot holes, it puts Sparta's pit of death to shame. it's so boring, drywall's ain't got nothing on this, thank god i only spent 2.30 on this movie. i still want it back though. after 15 minutes, you don't even care. you just want everyone to die and the movie to be over. and the icing on the cake? THERE'S NEVER ANY FIELDS. the entire movie takes place in a house and barn. not only that, the cover (which by the way is the best part of the movie) clearly depicts a man with a fish hook,which you never see. i can't get over how bad this movie was. Everything about this movie was just plain crap-fest. This movie should have never seen the light of day. This movie, without a doubt, gets a 1, out of 10.