A group of obnoxious high schoolers are on their way to a concert when they find that their car is running low on gas. The driver, dweeby, pimple-faced Drew(Ryan Hulshof)also gets the gang lost, having missed the highway leading them into hicksville, where a sinister farmhouse and massive barn reside on a country road. Clownish Zach(Brian Austin Jr), his fraidy-cat(..the kind afraid of her own shadow)constantly complaining girl-friend Justine(Lindsay Dell), annoying immature jock Josh(Eric Phillion), and high school hottie Taylor(Jenna Scott)find themselves looking for Drew when he leaves to find a possible fuel pump nearby the farmhouse never returning. As they search through the farmhouse and barn, they encounter a backwoods psycho whose face is hidden by long messy black hair, quietly awaiting each victim before attacking from behind when they are most vulnerable. Those who are able to get away, head for help and a phone trying to stay one step ahead of the predator.<br /><br />Obvious Texas Chainsaw Massacre clone lacks any tension whatsoever. Despite some eerie locations such as the abandoned farmhouse falling to waste and ruin, a barn still equipped with livestock and hay, and a slaughterhouse up the road from the main setting of the film, there should be an abundance of atmosphere. But, it seems instead of building dread, director Al Randall builds boredom as his cast spend 85 minutes of the film searching for either each other, a phone, or assistance. Walking, walking, and walking some more, these characters are always looking with little action taking place. The violence on display is lacking as one victim sticks his hand in the blade of farming equipment(dumbass)attempting to prove that no one is among them, one victim is stabbed with a screwdriver, and another is knocked unconscious by falling hay. Jenna Scott as "final girl" Taylor, is very attractive eye candy, certainly nice to look at for 90 minutes, often seen pulling off her shirt with the director establishing just how developed she is under her bra, has no personality whatsoever. She's merely on screen, constantly keeping her hair out of her face, belly exposed after scissoring her shirt early in the movie. Taylor's confrontation with the killer during their final showdown is numbingly ineffective, devoid of tension. The killer spends a lot of time off-screen as the two girls run around trying to find a phone, easy prey yet the predator seems little inspired to catch them. When he does trap the two girls in the slaughterhouse, he moves so slow and gives his quarry plenty of time to fight back. Just a terrible climax following a tiresome 80 or so minutes of wasted time.