Up until I saw this crap film, I was satisfied with my declaration that the 80's cheese-fest "The Last Slumber Party" and the lame 90's "Ax 'Em" were tied for the title worst slasher flick of all time. Well, move over, because we have a new contender in town! I have to wonder if the filmmakers even WATCHED this film after shooting it! It's pure ineptness from start to finish and some of the most ridiculous scenes in movie history. The plot is simple: Four teens who seem to not even be able to stand each other very much decide to go to a concert together. On the way, the run out of gas and are left to explore an old farmhouse for help. It doesn't take long before one of the four disappears and the others go looking for him, only to realize that there is something not quite right about the property. Believe me, it sounds more interesting than it could ever hope to be. There are so many WTF moments that it is even hard to keep track: wouldn't the kids fill up BEFORE they departed on a miles long trip to the country in search of a concert? Does getting your hand stuck in a piece of farm equipment actually kill you? But those aren't even the moments that make this "slasher" film absurd. That comes in the form of us having to watch to of the most annoying and stupid female characters ever to appear in a slasher film! First, neither can act her way out of a paper sack. Secondly, the writer has them do the most implausible things. They never REALLY try to escape the killer, who, by the way, seems totally uninterested in killing either one of them. I think I counted 11 different times that the killer had the perfect opportunity to kill BOTH girls, but for some reason, doesn't. This is most blatant due to the fact that the either girl actually ever RUNS away. They walk! In one of the more ridiculous scenes, the girls hitch a ride with an old farmer, only to have the killer come along when his truck is stopped to kill him. This is the PERFECT time for the killer to kill the girls, mainly Because they both STAND BY THE TRUCK FOR ABOUT 5 MINUTES before walking away, yet the killer seems to care less. A similar thing happens when they take refuge in a glass office. And the climatic scene is just laughable.<br /><br />Seriously folks, avoid this at all costs. There is NOTHING remotely interesting, scary, or redeeming about it and you will truly feel like you wasted 85 minutes of your life AND your voice for screaming at the stupidity you see while watching it! 1 out of 10!