Starting with the awesome opening episode of "Cartaker" this seems to be off on the right foot, but somewhere along the line it became the same mind numbing drivel every week and by the third year I was so bored i tuned out of star trek completely. Well done, i was a huge Trekkie and you turned me away! Where does it go wrong? Well for me (i know people will disagree) Janeway seems more concerned with her hair and coffee than she does the physical and mental well being of her crew... which makes her a bad captain. she is also emotionally closed off, annoying and, lets be honest, has a deeper voice than Barry white! Chakotay, a wonderful character well acted is reduced from rebel leader with balls to janeway's puppy in less than 45 mins. excellent choice for dramatic tension there! Paris, the guy we meet *in prison* becomes a wonderful guy who rarely (as in maybe twice over 7 years) questions his superiors. the ships will be 70 years from home, yet we meet Ferengi, Klingon's and a Romulan across the series... so much for leaving those species in the alpha quadrant. the series suffers from a reliance on technobabble never seen before, a regular joe doesn't understand half of what is being said and the rest phase out due to the internal consistency... or lack thereof. relationships develop out of nowhere (7 0f 9 and chakotay are virtually lovers in season 7 after barely speaking for 4 years) or never change at all. Kim is the same naive wide eyed guy in season 7 as season 1... great character development there guys, well done! all in all the show sucks, in star trek 4 Scotty comes across a way to re-crystalize dilithium, yet 100 years later voyager cannot do this so they need to enter dangerous nebula's to get more fuel... hmm. they state they cannot loose shuttle, then blow up several with "no way of replacing them".... then replace them by building a shuttle. nothing makes sense because there is no consistency, characters are dull, the series is turned on its head by 7 of 9 and becomes "the 7 of 9 and Janeway show" at the cost of other characters. after the brilliance of the original series and next gen, the darkness of ds9 voyager does what no one else was able to do, kill off star trek. enterprise came along and continued the same trend, but the fatal blow was already struck with this complete waste of time, money, "creativity" and resources. do yourself a favour, forget they ever existed.