** many spoilers** Oh boy, was I disappointed in this one!! I had my hopes up when I saw the DVD on sale at last, having read already much about it. But it did not live up to all my expectations at all! First of all: why change the original myth about Theseus and Ariadne??! Generally I don't mind if novels or true stories are changed somewhat in a movie, but in this case the original at least had some plot in it, and in this poor adaptation simply nothing happens!! It's basically about a bunch of kids that are thrown into a labyrinth and are chased by this Minotaur creature, who kills the majority of them in apparently the only way it knows of: by stabbing them with it's giant horns. Okay, that's exciting to watch for one time, but by the tenth time it gets very boring! The kids are no treat to watch too, looking scruffy and filthy, and the supposed hero Theo looks like a scarecrow on a bad-hair day. That doesn't help very much to sympathize with them while they're running around scared. The side-story of the priest-king and his priestess-sister doesn't add anything to the plot, it's just boring too, and I guess the quasi-Shakespearian ramblings-on of the priest are the result of the gasses he inhales because they're blurred and silly. And then there are numerous inconsistencies and illogical goings-on that kept amazing me. For example: all the kids are lowered on a rope in the pit from exactly the same spot, but down under everyone is apparently dispersed and it takes about 10 minutes to find each other back, by yelling and screaming, which is a very silly thing to do by the way in a creatures cave! The Minotaur was summoned up beforehand by the priest, so it could have expected its dinner coming down, but strangely enough it's no-where to be found when they all come down. Why wasn't it sitting under the pit with it's jaws wide open?!? Then the priestess lets herself fall backwards in the pit, which had just been closed with much ado and noise. How did she do it: slip through the holes in the iron framework?? And then there's suddenly a back-door in the labyrinth, and it appears to be exactly at the spot where the creature has it's sleeping-den, just a wooden door with one wooden bolt! Isn't that a bit strange?? All the creature had to do was just ramming that door or stick it's fierceful horns through it and it would have been free and could have eaten the inhabitants of the whole village! Anyway, these things at least sort of made it amusing to watch. And to give to movie some credit: the Minotaur looked pretty decent, a sort of Alien-like head with a Rotweilers way of gallopping through the labyrinth-hallways. But as I said: there's too little plot, too much of the same things happening over and over again and you don't care a bit who lives or dies, so to me it was a big deception. I rank it 4 (because of the looks of the creature) out of 10.