Usually when movies are filmed based on true stories, I tend to find out something about what happened before seeing the movie. I was very aware of the Matthew Shepard tragedy from classes at school and TV reports. As well I think there are a few stories that shouldn't be made into movies unless they are handled well. Such as the Oklahoma City Bombing or the Matthew Shepard tragedy. When I heard of this movie and how it connected with the stand up against discrimination campaign I thought it would stand a fair chance and rise above common TV movie meandering. At times it did. But for the most part I was sadly disappointed. On a purely techinical level the filming was not engaging. Few shots really brought the movie alive and MTV has a way of lighting there movies that always look like an episode of TRL. The script itself was not very strong. In fact the most emotionally moving moments of the movie were clips from live news reels and candle light vigils. The attackers were lives were shown as well as Matthew's but all of the attackers dialogue was forced and poorly written. One shot of the movie does stand out. Anyone who was aware of the tragedy is familiar with the one profile picture of Matthew Shepard. While Matthew (Cy Carter) lies in the hospital waiting to die a friend says she will bring a picture to attach to a story being written, so people will know who he is. The picture is that profile. I felt a chill at that moment. Other than that...the acting was weak. Cy Carter met the physical description of Shepard and at moments captured his heart but still left me wanting more. As the attackers, neither actor really brought a fleshed out character. The strongest actor in the movie was the young woman playing Chassity. She really brought out another level to her paper thin character. In one scene her mother is accused of being a lesbian. Chassity says she has no problems with gay people and even works on the gay student union, but when her mother is attacked a side of Chassity comes out. It's okay for anyone else to be gay...but not her mother. It really shows how sometimes people can feel one way but still be conflicted. All in all...this movie leaves the viewer wanting. This tragedy, if it was to be made into a movie at all, and I wish it hadn't...deserved a much better representation than this. Yet still, the message gets through and the important facts of the trial and ensuing panic were represented well. While you feel little for the characters, you understand the effect this had on their lives and of the lives of all americans.