Tunnel Rats, one the best Vietnam films ever made. While people are always willing to back Full Metal Jacket, Platoon, Apocalypse Now and others, this film really hits the mark. This film does not leave you feeling the need to throw out one liners with your friends over a couple of pints, it does not leave you believing they had some fun over in Vietnam like in Hamburger Hill when they go to the local massage parlour and get laid and drink beer (although Hamburger Hill does hit home), this film shows exactly what fighting that war was all about. Fighting an enemy you could not find and could certainly never beat. People have been shocked by how the film was made, but how better to get a real picture of what actually happened out there. Squeezing into a tunnel big enough for very small people and not being able to take proper defences with you, not being able to breath or move properly. This film is very much a political message and what a shame these films were not made earlier when the actual war was taking place. Maybe the anti-war protesters would have been more willing to give the war vets the credit they deserve for being drafted and made to do what it is they did. This film commands respect and no matter how awful the portrayal of killing is, or how awful the darkness of the film is, this is a complete truth of what was happening. Americans bombing their own at the end of the movie, reminiscent of Hamburger Hill and that film was acclaimed. My heart goes out to the people who fought in that war, the survivors and the dead. They fought because governments can't simply learn to live with their differences, or they can't just sit down and decide to have a poker game instead. No, they gamble with other people's lives and this leads to creative minded people like Uwe, who see a tort and do something about it, make films that show true depictions of what really happened no matter how bloody. In a couple of years there will be more films like this about the war on terror because G W wanted to line the pockets of his suit at the expense of young men and women because he can't tolerate other countries disagreeing with him. Well done Uwe, this film opens the mind and shows how ugly war truly is. Throw on some boxing gloves government leaders, or go fight the war yourselves.