The original "Basket Case" is a pretty cherished favorite of mine that, you could say, really 'rocked my world' when I inattentively rented it as a kid. I don't think I have since received so many late-fees from a single rental as I did with that movie, from keeping it for weeks on end... As I got older and learned of other Frank Hennenlotter titles, I sought out other gems like "Frankenhooker", "Brain Damage" and, of course, the "Basket Case" sequels. I vaguely recall having also seen the two follow-ups as a youngster and, of course, they never really stuck with me since...<br /><br />Unlike a lot of people, I actually enjoyed "part 2" as a wacky continuation with all of the over-the-top "freak" effects and hokey storyline. It was a fun watch, though it didn't quite hold up to the grimy urban 'horror' feel of the first movie. "Part 3" was even more genuinely needless which didn't seem possible after the first sequel! I found this one's just far too dumb and fatuous to get "into"... It picks up where the second movie left off with Duane and Belial being separated once again and hitting the road on their freak-bus, along with all of the other non-normals, to the house of a doctor who is going to assist in the 'birthing' of Belial's pregnant girlfriend. Duane still wants out of the whole situation and is retained in a straight jacket while the litter of small Belials are born. The small town cops end up catching wind of the freak-house and decide to capture the deformed babies...<br /><br />Hennenlotter, himself, has expressed distaste for this particular movie - stating that it was simply "a paycheck". Granted, his 'sellout' streak lead to a 15 year hiatus, though I doubt that it was "Basket Case 3", entirely, which signaled this halt in his career. The problem with the flick is just that it was really just the EXACT same movie as 2, with the comedic elements wearing incredibly thin this time around. Again, 2 was fine for what it was, as sort of a parody - in the same sense Tobe Hooper conducted his "Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2" - but "Basket Case 3"; I did not find funny or that entertaining. In fact, I was just plain bored through the majority. Frank's heart and the full extent of his creativity was just not in this one and it shows... In my opinion, all of Hennenlotter's other films are great and for all of those who have been hoping for his return probably have, and if not, should check out his latest, "Bad Biology"...