This movie begins when a cult called "The Sisters" are going through an initiation in which a bullet is put in a gun and fired off to test the courage of the new members. If the bullet goes off, they loose. If it does not, then the new member is welcomed. In this case, the bullet goes off on one of the two newest members and the rest of the group looks on at her horrified. The story continues as seven years after the incident, each member of the group gets an invitation to a reunion along with a bunch of cash and is asked to meet at a hotel. After each member meets at their destination, two guys come up and escort them to their final meeting place wherever that is. The girls go along and the guys drive them to a resort and they are all welcomed to the place with a pool, parties and a welcoming sighn. As the girls have their fun, the two guys go back to join in the fun. But the owner of the resort has other plans up his sleeve as to what to do with the girls once they arrive and it was part of the plan for the guys to leave and never come back. In which a gate to the resort is closed and lined with electric barbbed wire. The man turns out to be the father of the slain girl killed seven years ago and it is his plan to kill each member one by one. The guys in this movie that weren't supposed to be part of this plot didn't fit in with the movie. they were a waste of time and should have left after they dropped them off because they were totally out of place. At the end of the movie, one of the girls is faced with the father and she tells him a tale of how his daughter planed on killing herself anyway and told the person that fired the gun to go ahead and kill her off anyway. This does not make any sense sense the shooter was supposed to be witness as to who rigged the fake bullet and place a real one in it's place. Then the very last part of the film in which the surviver of the cult pulls a gun to one of the guys and says she is the last one to leave and fires off the gun just left me dumbfounded. I don't understand this movie and it would have been better if it was explained in more detail and made more sense.