There's SO much wrong with this movie, I barely know where to start first. Oh no wait, I do know! With the ending, seeing there isn't really one! The plot introduces many characters that each have their own odd personalities, there's loads of sexual tension & intrigue between them all, a mad scientist with blood vengeance on his mind and everything taking place in a castle with a sinister history. All these great ideas and Gothic-trademarks and then, suddenly, it goes terribly wrong and the film ends in a minor key. It feels like whatever tight budget Adrian Hoven was working with all of sudden ran out completely and, as a result of this, they just quit in the middle of shooting. Howard Vernon – a Jess Franco regular – plays yet another mentally messed up Baron slash doctor slash castle owner. Some centuries ago, one of his ancestors lost his beautiful daughter because she was raped and abused by savage men in the woods. History seems to repeat itself, as Graf Saxon's own daughter also falls victim to an assault. He and his loyal servants want to resurrect the dead daughter but they'll need essential body parts from living beings. Lucky for them, a drunken bunch of flamboyant party animals stumbles into the castle and onto the operation table. "Castle of the Creeping Flesh" is a very bizarre film for more than just one reason. I've been using the term "gothic" already, but I'm not entirely sure if it fully counts as goth-horror! During with era are the events even supposed to take place? The characters attend fancy high society parties, yet they ride horses instead of cars. And Howard Vernon lives isolated in a creepy castle, yet he's perfectly able to perform a complex open-heart surgery? And yet, underneath all the confusion, implausible story lines and downright horrible dubbing jobs, there is an interesting and obscure exploitation effort to discover. We have gorgeous euro-babes stripping their clothes off, an occasionally macabre ambiance and some really graphic gore moments. Howard Vernon is terrible but fun to observe as always and Michel Lemoine is genuinely scary with his horrifying eyes. It's really too bad about that crap ending, otherwise I could recommend it even more.