"Deadgirl" is indeed frightening, but not in the way it's been advertised. This is nothing less than pornography for necrophiliacs disguised as a horror movie. I'm sure the writer and director thought they were being edgy, but the end result is a morbid stew of violence, rape, and the vapid emptiness of modern teens who have no moral compass at all. Since the "living" dead girl of the title cannot speak when discovered by the two main male characters in an abandoned mental hospital, it is naturally assumed by the writer and director that at least one of the boys will instantly see the chained woman as a sex object, that is, after he kills her three times. The "evil" protagonist J.T. casually tells his "good" friend Ricky that he initially killed the woman because she tried to bite him. He goes on to say that this murder "felt good", and this is how he discovered her inability to die. Ricky displays no emotion at all to the news that J.T. initially committed a murder, even before it was discovered that the girl could not die. Evidently this sort of behavior is common among today's high schoolers. None of the male characters with the exception of Ricky seem the least bit concerned that this undying woman could harbor disease, instead, they rape her repeatedly even to the point of using bullet wounds as entry for sex. Thankfully, the audience is spared this visual. In plot line, "Deadgirl" owes a lot to "River's Edge" in that a group of teens without pity or any sense of decency abuse a corpse and refuse to divulge the information to anyone of authority. They simply use this dead-girl to satisfy their own twisted agendas and seem surprised when things don't go well. The writing is very weak, consisting mostly of f-bombs, homophobic taunting, and screaming. This is one time I'm sorry I didn't turn the DVD player off, since watching the entire movie ended up making me feel culpable in the on screen activity. I hope there is no sequel in the works, but I wouldn't count on it.