"Deadgirl" was promoted to me as being a perverse and morbid, yet unique and eccentric "coming of age" story for the nowadays adolescent generations. Well, okay, that's one way of putting it, of course. Another way could be stating that this is just a bizarrely experimental and exploitative student film. I'm really inveigled to glorify "Deadgirl" and stimulate others to watch it, as this is a film directed by two ambitious and obviously enthusiast young horror directors, but the truth is that it's honestly not that great. The basic plot contains a handful of ingenious ideas and the setting boosts an overall unsettling atmosphere, but the screenplay unfolds too grotesque and the escalation of the events are far too implausible. Teenage high-school outcasts simply don't turn into relentless rapists & murderers overnight. And now that we are being skeptical anyway: undead girls don't just appear naked on tables in the catacombs of an abandoned asylum without reason, and they certainly don't remain lying there for weeks at the disposal of oversexed nerds! That is, plainly put, what "Deadgirl" is about. One day whilst skipping school, outsiders JT and Rickie hang around an abandoned asylum and discover the seemingly lifeless body of an attractive young woman chained to a table in the one of the basements. Seemingly lifeless, because the girl is alive and apparently can't even be killed. JT promptly satisfies his sickest and twisted sexual fantasies on the defenseless girl, but Rickie at least has some moral decency left. The basement rapidly turns into a rendezvous place for horny losers, but then the fun is over when the girl bites back. The formula of "Deadgirl" is dared and definitely a whole lot more original than the majority of mainstream horror movies being released today, but still it falls short in several other and equally crucial departments. The film is a bit overlong, occasionally very boring and sometimes too gratuitous only for the sake of being gratuitous. The "Coming of Age" theme of "Deadgirl" appears to be secondary to directors' Sarmiento and Harel intent to provoke people by depicting misogynistic sleaze and violence. Noah Segan is not at all convincing as the typical high school rebel gradually metamorphosing into a stoic and ruthless killer, while Shiloh Fernandez is just pitiable as the conscious but loyal friend. The rape sequences, although they are actually more on the verge of necrophilia sequences already, are disgusting and – as mentioned above – completely gratuitous.