This is one of the strangest and definitely one of the most atypical titles to be found in the whole list of infamous Video Nasties. Judging by the stills on the back of the VHS-cover and based on the narrative during the first half of the film, I would unhesitatingly describe "Delirium" as a crude and misogynistic slasher reminiscent of "Maniac" and "Don't Go in the House". You know; the type of sick film that doesn't bother keeping the identity of the killer secret but depicts the violence against female victims extra vile and repellent. There's a maniac at large who slaughters his women relentlessly and grotesque. One of the poor girls even has a pitchfork stuck in her throat! Whilst the roommate of his first victim teams up with the incompetent police force, the maniac – Charlie – gets killed after a failed attempt to make another victim. Then suddenly and completely unexpected, "Delirium" becomes a post-Vietnam war drama. It is revealed that Charlie was a member of a secret network of vigilantes that exists entirely out of bloodthirsty Vietnam veterans and they are hired by a board of eminent & businessmen in order to keep the streets crime-free. Charlie just went a little berserk and started killing women randomly, that's all! The "leader" of the vigilantes is a fairly short-sized yet menacing guy with a shiny bald head that would make even Telly Savalas jealous and, during the climax of the film, he goes totally bonkers as well. The concept of "Delirium" undoubtedly shows potential, but the elaboration is overly confusion and dull and reverts all too easily to dreadful clichés (like Vietnam flashbacks and power mad army officers). The first slasher half is rather exciting, with a couple of truly nasty murder sequences and the most laughably inept police investigation ever, but the second half is painfully tedious and derivative of much better films. I can't really bring myself to recommend "Delirium" to anyone, but I suppose it holds some interest if you're a cult movie freak.