Many of the other "posters" are very good at judging movies - WHY does EVERYONE have to tell the whole story, naming all the actors-actresses, etc.? By the time one gets to posting a commentary, we're all familiar with all of that......after all, we're not writing a "critque", we're just giving personal opinions.<br /><br />This is a gorgeously-filmed movie - isn't that enough? Taylor gets her chance to look beautiful and attempt to live-up to her reputation of being a "great" actress. Huh? As I am quite old, I know people who saw her in public when she was young - say "Suddenly Last Summer" age (my opinion, her best) - say no one could take their eyes off her, she was so lovely. I've heard she has often said, "My beauty is a burden". What a clear message of "dont'!" to other ladies whose sole goal is to stand-around and look gorgeous - Ms. Taylor has been subconsciously trying to destroy her beauty all of her life. If you've seen her appearance at the Acadmey Awards for 2004, then you'll see she has achieved her goal, no matter how. They should have locked her in her house! I wanted to slap those who allowed to appear in public looking like that. Yet, perhaps I am being unkind, because I think there will be no other great beauty like hers. I am quite content to watch her in amazement of her beauty, no matter how unfulfilling the acting may be..... knowing she has had so much tragedy in her life.....and knowing it is public information that she does great charity-work: The American Foundation for AIDS Research, to be specific. Perhaps she has accepted the fact that beauty comes in many forms. Long live Liz !!<br /><br />I've found only one other commentary which states that Cliff was gay, covered-up by studio-politics for a long time. Can that be important? He was a fine actor - just as Eva Marie Saint was a fine actress, and under-played her role wonderfully. So good to see Lee Marvin as a "hunk" instead of the character-actor roles he was usually assigned to.<br /><br />I don't believe "Raintree County" was meant to make a statement - they didn't even allow the actors to see the rain-tree in the end !! Wasn't its existence supposed to be the ultimate "healer"? This movie, so far as I can see, is just pure entertainment, done well. Ms. Taylor and Mr. Montgomery were huge stars - what else could be done with them but allow them to exploit their "star-power"? As for acting, Montgomery was much better in "The Heiress", and had to produce against the magnificent Olivia de Haviland.<br /><br />So, Guys - lighten-up and just enjoy this beautiful film. To all who had any part of its production, Bravo!