hockeystudjx...please please, don't judge your life on whether or not you score a lot of woman. there is so much more to life than that (and this is coming from someone who doesn't get much). Many very famous people such as Isaac Newton, Eintestin, Helen Clark (well not that famous, but nz prime minister) have not had great sex life's, or none at all in newtons case. That doesn't mean however, that they have not lived a fulfilling and satisfying life.<br /><br />Anyway, now that that rant is over, Average Joe was an entertaining enough show, but it just proved that all the stereotyping dating philosophies apparently still hold true. However, in New Zealand, i do know many, many average looking guys who go out with hot woman. What does this prove? that the show was set up in a contrived and unrealistic way. The producers purposely case a dumb model type who would typically be shallow, and case not only average looking ( and lets face it some below average looking) men, but in general men who were nice, polite considerate and smart, in other words much too good for a shallow bimbo like Larissa or Melanie. I truly believe these woman had nothing but 15 minutes of fame in mind when doing these shows. Larissa in particular really seemed to like none of the guys, although apparently her and jock boy were dating for a quite a while afterwards.<br /><br />I thought some of the way the show was run was just stupid, i mean look lets face it, 99 percent of woman are going to find David daskal unattrac tive. Im sorry dude but they are. there is no way that Larissa even had a smithet of a feeling sexually towards him, yet the producers let some stupid viewers to believe that this might not be the case.<br /><br />the one hero of this whole series was of course Adam Mesh, who is thankfully now happily married. But he himself proved to be just as bad as the girls when he rejected Rachel in his own series. A humorous moment apparently occurred when Rachel's father walked up to mesh a few weeks after the show had ended and said "you picked the wrong girl!". Mesh, not realising who he was, said "I picked the one I had stronger feelings for at the time!" overall, its still watchable, but unfortunately so many difficult stereotypes were confirmed that it really reflected badly on the state of dating in America