I cannot believe that all the people on this comment section are actually praising this grotesque piece of horrid cinema! Where do I start? What the hell was the plot of this movie? The main character, Raymond Joshua, is an amateur poet and drug dealer who gets sent to prail(prison and jail, which I'll talk about later) after making the moronic mistake of attempting to jump a fence instead of running away from the fifty year old "doo-wop" cops. He then gets in the patty wagon with arguably the best character of the movie, an unknown convict named Jimmy Huang or some sort of phallic name like that. He screams, yells, gets beaten, and earns the third credit in the film for his three seconds of brilliance. Mr. Joshua then meets with his la la la lawyer who is obviously smoking some of the drugs that our "star" was caught with. Comprehending what the hell the lawyer was saying is like "trying to throw a snowball into an elephants mouth at a hundred feet..." Now he is sent to jail, which for some reason is made out to be like a prison, "you might make it out of here...you might not." Dying for a quarter pound of weed seems a little excessive for a jail, however, if only that had happened the suffering could have turned to slight laughter with mild nausea. He meets another street pharmacist in "jail," the for some reason free roaming Hopha, who is aloud to have his cell door open, maybe he has appointments with some of the bigger prisoners for conjugal visits or something, they don't really explain that. Raymond then meets a disgusting woman teaching poetry (go figure) to the troubled murderers and rapists with artsy souls dying to get out. I'm not going to say any more, I wouldn't want to spoil the filth for you entirely. Let's just say this movie is wonderful. In the way that having a catheter and an enema at the exact same time your limbs are being sawed off one at a time with a piece of looseleaf paper is pleasant. Do yourself a favor and watch Breakin 2: Electric Boogaloo, the Mountain Men, and Slam, and then try not to kill yourself, I dare you.