Given the somewhat entertaining track record of these After Dark films, I had some certain expectations with the given supporting cast of Michael Madsen, Vinnie Jones, and Micheal Kelly though in reality they've had a little more than brief cameos. But somehow I found myself losing complete faith this movie due to terrible writing after the first 5 minutes.<br /><br />One of the few minor positive things about Tooth and Nail was that it had potential. It tried to reference a would-be global crisis of the exhaustion of natural resources, and I thought it would take its aim toward something else more cataclysmic. The two plot twists were only mildly stimulating as I considered them to be possibilities beforehand, but none the less predictable. The flashback was a minor spark in the end.<br /><br />This is the point of where it started to be insulting. The concept that the apocalypse started after the world "ran out of gas" was very far fetched as best, but what really got me was the aftermath in the storyline. It just didn't make sense. Are people that desperate to just wither away and die in the streets? Would they really starve to death or try to eat each other? Haven't they heard of growing crops, fishing, and raising livestock? Other forms of power such as solar power and hydro-power could have been utilized instead. Even if there weren't any available alternatives, humanity wouldn't go down to that level of savagery. Humanity has survived without gas for tens of thousands of years, and I wouldn't think they would devolve that quickly. That large and obvious plot hole could have been covered.<br /><br />The level of fear factor in this movie is zero, it shouldn't have been in the mix of After Dark Horrorfest since it seemed like "made for TV" cheese. These survivors deliberately hide in a hospital in hopes "to rebuild society" in the middle of a concrete jungle. What do they do, when one of their own gets killed? They just wait like sitting ducks until another one of their own gets picked off. All these characters are labeled the constant horror movie cliché as "too stupid to live". They separate and one dies after another. What was even lamer was that Dakota character not accepting the fact that her boyfriend the Professor got killed. She saw the blood, his glasses were left behind, he is obviously not there.<br /><br />The credibility of these villains are laughable. Maybe a reference to give these cannibals a better background would have worked. The movie should have told me that these cannibals have mutated or contracted have a zombie virus instead. But these big oafs for villains just walk around in a lobotomized state with tiny little axes and carving knives. They may be strong, but they seemed very dim witted. Michael Madsen obviously wasn't taking his role seriously with some of the worst acting minutes I've seen in recent memory. As for Vinnie Jones, he was fronting his role with a closing psychotic laughter. Oooh...I'm scared. Then there's that eloquent cannibal who was tooting the D flat note with his horn. Okay I've complained enough.<br /><br />I can't recommend Tooth and Nail with these noticeable and unjustifiable flaws. Don't waste your time with this movie. Seriously.