A small community of young adults(..and a mute kid with roller skates)whose leader is a professor(Robert Carradine), living within the confines of a massive hospital in a major city after civilization has fallen apart due to the total absence of gas-fuel, fall prey to an ominous group of barbaric cannibals who collect a victim a night for their feast, led by the sound of a horn. This all starts when three from the group find a fallen young woman, Neon(Rachel Miner, of the previous year's "8 films to die for" feature, PENNY DREADFUL)who claims that the cannibals are called Rovers and slaughtered her whole family. Soon, the group fall one by one to these madmen, as their leader is the first to die, leaving them to fend for themselves with little hope of survival. Through this horrifying ordeal, one must strengthen the others as a leader or else they all perish.<br /><br />Actually, for a good portion of the film, it's quite intense and suspenseful because there seems like such little hope for these kids, without a head once he's removed(..the kind of leader who was quite smart with goal of starting over, competent in his abilities, whose weakness was trust which leaves him vulnerable)against such amoral brutes with a nasty visage and even nastier weaponry..they resemble extras from the second Mad Max film, THE ROAD WARRIOR. Vinnie Jones is a memorable heavy, with his evil smile, bulging eyes & whistling scythe as he spins it around ready for blood shed. Michael Madsen, who at first appears to be the leader of this group, has a minor role as the cannibal "Jackal" who whistles towards his quarry before using a two-sided ax to do his damage. Rider Strong(..who also appears in 2007's "8 films to die for" entry BORDERLAND)has a strong role as the aggressive Ford, the kind of character who thinks mostly of saving his own skin. He voices his opinion loudly often antagonizing instead of helping to solve their terrible situation. Michael Kelly(..as Viper, who leaves the group, tired of being bossed around by Carradine's professor. and is an awfully good shot with a crossbow), who many might know from the DAWN OF THE DEAD remake as the irritating mall security guard whose attitude towards the survivors was quite unkind, has a heroic role towards the end as the kind of tough character who everyone else quietly respected, despite his rather negative reactions to what the community was trying to accomplish. I'm not sure why Carradine(..who most identify from REVENGE OF THE NERDS)isn't used in horror more. I think he's a welcome presence, and I sure hated seeing him exit this so early. The one thing this film direly needed was an adult presence. The film has some ferocious attacks on the kids, which are slickly handled using the darkness of night(..and a camera which moves the right way to avoid seeing the initial stabs into flesh), to avoid real graphic displays of carnage. I think the best thing going for the film is the cold, dank darkness of the hospital setting, even creepier at night. The post-apocalyptic premise is touched on here and there(..mostly through dialogue)but the overall theme comes straight from HILLS HAVE EYES.<br /><br />But, I found the whole "wolf in sheep's clothing" twist absolutely ridiculous, and once we find out who is guiding this cannibal group, I couldn't take the film seriously anymore. And, Nicole DuPort's character Dakota, a soft-spoken, rather weak member of the group who was sleeping with the professor, putting her complete faith and life in his future plans, metamorphosing into a bloodthirsty savage with warrior paint, nearly had me laughing my ass off. And, to be honest, this whole method of executing the victims one at a time, using this specific time at night to hunt, had my eyes rolling. If you want to eat people, just f'n do it.