Wow, did I feel torn about this film! On one hand, the film had some exceptional characters (in particular the aunt). But, on the other, the play was so inappropriate and sick in how it dealt with teen sexuality it really made me angry. If you look at this film from a completely amoral standpoint, it is a very good film with a lot to recommend it. As a parent and teacher, I was just horrified at times as I watched.<br /><br />First, what I liked. Aunt Stefania was a great character. At the beginning of the film, she was extremely rigid and controlling and so naturally her relationship with her boyfriend, Andrea, was falling apart. This opening sequence was extremely funny as they contrasted how both viewed the health of their relationship. He was miserable and yet all the terrible things she did, she saw them as the strengths of their relationship! Later, towards the end, there was a cute little twist that brought them back together. Throughout the film, some very good (but morally suspect) writing really kept my interest. Plus, having the beautiful backdrop of the Greek Isles made this film exciting to watch.<br /><br />Now as for the bad. Stefania's niece, Megghy, was a horrible mess of a character. Although she was not quite 15, her sole ambition in life was to love her virginity with ANYONE and lose it quickly! In addition, she was a habitual liar and a self-absorbed little jerk. Now had she faced any consequences for this, it could have been funny or interesting--but this never happened.<br /><br />What bothered me in particular is that Stefania is supposed to be an adult. Megghy lies to the aunt about a girl scout trip in order to go to the Greek Isles to get laid. When this supposedly responsible aunt discovers the ruse as well as why Megghy wants to go, she basically allows Megghy to run amok through the very horny island trying to find a willing partner and drink herself into oblivion! While Megghy looked older than her chronological age, her judgment was completely unsound and she was a child--and she was a likely candidate to get raped or get an STD or become pregnant (even if she went with her aunt to pick up boxes of condoms). This was supposed to be cute and funny--but to me it just seemed sleazy and morally bankrupt. Had Megghy been an adult, then perhaps you might have felt uncomfortable about her dippy behavior but you'd agree that as an adult she's free to mess up her own life. But to have the aunt help facilitate? This is just sick. Had Megghy wanted to become an assassin or sexually abuse farm animals, would Aunt Stefania have said 'no'? This film desperately needed some adults who were willing to behave as adults.<br /><br />Excellent but depraved writing--I worry what messages this film might be sending to young and impressionable kids.