"For the Birds" is only a three minute short film with a well deserved big award, the 2002 Oscar for Best Short Film, animated. I completely understand why, "For the Birds", one of Pixar's most recent short films won the award. Though I found Pixar's earlier work to be more enjoyable and humorous, such as their shorts from Toy Story 1 and A Bugs Life, it still was fun to watch and suitable for all ages.<br /><br />This film is a perfect example of karma, how your negativity can back fire on you. It had many built in messages, most of the hidden ones recognized by the older audience, but children still get the same type of impression of what is going on and why the outcast, goofy looking bird was left out of the group of all the other birds that looked alike, because children start to build social groups at younger ages than what most people would think.<br /><br />The introduction animation was amazing, how the letters flowed along the telephone pole wire in front of the blue sky with extravagant white cartoon clouds, it gives you a good feeling of what your about to watch. The birds were creative, short, chubby, but with an annoying repetitive chirp, they were also a bluish color and odd looking eliminating questions like, "What kind of birds are those?" when it shouldn't matter and isn't something that should be bothersome or a mystery.<br /><br />I thought "For the Birds" was hilarious and a small three minute segment that can keep people talking. I would recommend it to anyone, especially children, though there wasn't any dialog the humor came across just as good or even better as if there was. But without dialog small facts to embrace the film can be difficult to get across. No one would know until they read about the film that four of the birds on the wires had names, Chipper, Bully, Snob, and Neurotic, and they all acted out their personalities, there was most likely no possible way to get that across unless they added something in the beginning where they introduced the birds but that might have took away from the comical value. I also don't think the title was appealing, it sounds kind of awkward and I didn't see the connection to the film.