A college-campus Casanova (Jones, who looks a bit like James Dean) keeps three girlfriends at the same time, and when they find out about each other they lock him up in an attic, where they take "revenge" on him by alternately having sex with him - thereby draining him of his energy, will-power, or something like that...<br /><br />The movie itself doesn't "know" what its goal is, so I can't even try to guess what the point is. That three hot-blooded college bimbos don't have a plan or a clear motive (apart from a vague notion of revenge) one can perhaps put down to female logic, i.e. the lack of it. (Sorry for that, any female readers; I may be a chauvinist, but at least I'm honest about it.) What makes the movie really stupid is that Jones's motives are totally unknown - to both the writer and the viewer. The fatal flaw of the premise is that Jones wasn't so much kidnapped and locked away in the attic, as that he voluntarily stayed there during his time of "captivity". In other words, he could have left any time; he was neither tied, threatened, blackmailed, nor physically abused - apart from the sex, which was supposed to be the punishment. How cute. It all sounds like a comedy, but the ridiculous truth is that this film actually takes its premise seriously and tries to make some kind of a statement, or even message, dare I say. The first hour is supposed to be light comedy; it must have been very light, for I can't remember a single truly funny moment. That first hour sort of breezed by, and in spite of a lack of humour it had a sort of semi-cheerful late 60s feel to it. So basically it seemed brainless, but harmless enough - or so I thought. But then came the "capture". Suddenly Jones is in the attic, and in the narration he tells us at that point that he was definitely "not going to give up". Give up on what?! The poor viewer sits there like an idiot, waiting for this whole attic nonsense to start making sense, but as the end draws near it becomes clear to the most brain-damaged viewer that there will be no explanation as to what Jones was trying to prove by staying in the basement; not even a clue as to why he was going on a hunger strike, trying to be a martyr, and just generally being as illogical as his curvaceous, female "captors". At the end he staggers, half-dead, out of the girls' dorm (where he was "kept" for a couple of weeks) and then gets beaten(!!!) by some girls who see him passing by. And after he has recuperated in the hospital he chases down his true love from the trio of girls - Mimieux - and tells her "we have the worst behind us" and can now continue their romance, or some nonsense like that. What the hell is that supposed to mean? Were the makers of this silly 60s crap actually trying to be clever? God knows what those semi-literate Hollywood bozos had in their tiny little heads when they made this... (Well, apart from trying to make money.) On the surface this would seem like a "9 to 5" sort of female-revenge-on-the-male-a**hole plot, but stupidly and strangely enough this isn't the case at all. The reasons it isn't are plain simple: 1) Jones is not portrayed as an a**hole; he even tells his best buddy that he loves Mimieux, and generally seems to be a likable character, and 2) the three girls are anything but decent, innocent, little flowers of youth. First Jones meets the dim-witted, blonde, virginal, Bible-hugging psycho-bitch (Mimieux) who says that she hates all men. He eventually and actually falls for this nut-case and vice versa. Then he meets the black girl (who apparently slept with many, many men) who seduces him - not the other way around - and she does so in spite of the fact that he suggested to her that he can't (screw her) because he has a date. I.e. she is a bitch: i.e. not exactly a pristine, virginal ray of sunshine. Then Jones meets the airhead, mysticism-oriented, brunette hippie girl who jumps into bed with him the first night - i.e. she wasn't born yesterday, and, like the black slut, came on to Jones more than was the case vice versa. (Supposedly she sleeps with him only because she believes him that he is gay and needs curing; a faint comedic touch.) In other words, there is only one girl here who really had a reason for revenge: the blonde psycho, Mimieux. The other two were just whores looking for fun. I don't even understand why he was hiding the other two girls from the black girl; this is illogical because she, of all three, really shouldn't care less. But to look for logic in this screwed up mess of a movie is like looking for a needle in a hay-stack, with the difference that the hay-stack is covered with manure, so that it isn't even tempting to look for the needle. The film would have worked if: 1) the guy were an a**hole, 2) all three girls were virginal and pure (or thereabouts), 3) Jones, after having hooked up with Mimieux, came on to the other two and not the other way around (practically), 4) the humour had been emphasized and better written, 5) all notions of making a message were dropped, 6) he were tied up in the attic and not free to leave, and 7) the movie made up its damn mind if it wanted to be a psycho-thriller or a cheerful comedy.