Okay, I don't want to make anyone angry, but this doesn't hold up very well. In fact I posit that the interview with Anthony Shaffer on the DVD is more entertaining than the whole film. Mankiewicz was a talented man and so was Shaffer, and so were the actors, but this is dated. It's talky, easy to figure out, and mostly something for fans of theater, Mank, and Olivier and Caine. The editing is particularly jarring, with quick cuts of inanimate objects inserted rapidly, something David Lynch does much more poetically in his work, most notably, Twin Peaks. This would never be filmed today, unless it was for Lifetime, with the leads changed for women and the script tightened, and reworked. It's a rambling old dinosaur of a play/script - it thunders along kicking up dust and then heaves its last breath and lays there wheezing on the ground, leaving this viewer wondering if it ever should have been translated to film. I'm sure it worked quite well as a stage play but in the cinematic day and age of Fight Club, The Sixth Sense, and The Others, it's old and musty and easy to figure out, (does anyone not know that's Michael Caine as the Inspector Doppler in the second act???) and if it does fool you, it's only for a second and not to very great effect. Deathtrap, also with Caine is a subtle retelling of this tale, only tighter, and with a woman character added. And both Deathtrap and Sleuth borrow Heavily from Diabolique. Heavily.<br /><br />If you do purchase or rent the DVD, watch the extra feature with Shaffer. It's Magic, which is what I expected from the film - but its time has come and gone. It has wrinkles and liver spots and will do little more than bore most viewers under 60. I know I'll get reamed for this, but it had its time and even then, in my humble opinion, it was over rated.<br /><br />If you like Olivier, there's a lot of better choices out there, as well as Caine. If you want a more lively 1970's work from Shaffer, try Frenzy or The Wicker Man. As for J. Mank, All About Eve was made 56 Years Ago (!!) and still holds up quite nicely as a savage black comedy of words, forever a monument to the man as a writer and director. Sleuth is little more than a dated footnote to his career. Everyone's actually - it just doesn't pass the test of time.