Oh geez! What the hell were they thinking when they came up with this one? This is one of the most... stupid movies I've ever seen. This is absolutely nothing below-average direct-to-video 80s slasher-crap made in the 90s. I swear, I think Columbia Pictures must have had about 10-million dollars laying around the studio that they didn't know what to do with, so they made this piece of garbage.<br /><br />The story, oh geez the story, is just so out-there unbelievable. GET READY FOR SOME SPOILERS, THOUGH I MUST SAY IT ISN'T SPOILING MUCH. Jennifer Love Hewitt and Brandy win a trip to a sorry tourist island by answering the radio station question "What is the capital of Brazil?" with "Rio." Oh please! I'm not going to lie, I'm a pretty smart person, but anyone with a sense of geography knows that just ain't right. Brasilia, dammit! Like a person that has been faking his death for a year would manage to dig up the money to send four people to the Bahamas. Yeah sure. I'm going to get revenge on the people (a pair of whom are dead) that hit-and-run me two years ago by sending them on a bit of a vacation first. What a nice serial killer am I? STUPID! Which reminds me, why is it called "I Still Know What You Did LAST Summer"? Sorry, Ben Willis, you're a couple of years behind. Anyway, for a reason I have yet to figure out, Jennifer Love Hewitt runs in the rain wearing a sweater and bikini bottom to tell Brandy and the rest of the victims that she ran over Ben Willis 2 years prior and that he went after her and Ray and killed 2 of her friends last year. In one seen, that I think is incredibly stupid, Jennifer's character is in a tanning machine when the psychotic Gordon's fisherman locks her in with one of those cable ties and turns the machine to full blast. As stupid as her friends are, they waste time breaking the machine when they could simply pull the plug. HELLO? Anyway, people die, killer dies, the end. And if that ain't bad enough, now we have the cast.<br /><br />Jennifer Love Hewitt, as lovely as she and her assets are, is not enough to save this film. Neither are Freddie Prinze Jr. and Mekhi Pheifer, who, despite the terrible story, do a good job. And as for Brandy, oh poor Brandy, as much as I like her music, the girl can't cut it (no pun intended) in cinema. Sorry girl, stick to your day job.<br /><br />Basically, this is a terrible film that only has 2 good points: a scene that I must admit surprised me, and 2 likeable characters, and no I don't mean Jennifer's breasts. For these two highlights and the fact that this gives people who like bad movies another one to watch, I give the film a 2/10. If you must see it, I suggest you wait until someone else rents it from the 99-cent rack and mooch off of them.