I'm seasoned Stargate fan and looked forward to this title being released. In fact one could say it was once my favorite series. Lo and behold I picked up the DVD a few days ago and set aside my night to watch it. The film starts with promise then descends into a banality that is awesome to behold. The first battle between the remains of SG1 and the Ori troops found me cringing with concern in the corner of my couch as perhaps one of the most poorly matched orchestrations ever showed itself. The triviality of the scene was breathtaking. The Ori, a force to be feared are reduced to squabbling school kids. Later the new IOC new recruit is paraded to us and conducts a meaningless interview. Shortly after this the one genuine moment in the film arrives - Tealc gets to show his empathetic side. What follows is a cluster that digs itself deeper and deeper as it goes, culminating in replicator man, a ridiculous and done to death idea, not even worthy of a B grade horror movie. Some where along the away Tealc cops a staff blast then walks a journey over some mountains that would have made Edmund Hillary tired before being healed by an ascended Ancient (what the????). Vala swans around in the Ori home base whilst her brain dead ascended daughter dares her to open the ark and goes on walk about (maybe baking some cookies for afterward). Vala then releases Daniel etc without resistance (where are the priors - at morning tea?). After the Oddesey get multiple Ori ship blasts (which it couldn't survive in either of the previous series) the 20 cent ending is with us. I never thought I would write comments such as this about the Stargate series, but here I am, bewildered and disenchanted at the PC. This movies rates with Dracula 3000 which also has a one star rating. Stargate should have finished at end of Series 7, but some how was allowed to linger and now we have this cash cow. If you must watch this item, I implore you to at least wait until 2 dollar Tuesday - failing that you can probably have mine for the same price.