I just got done watching this and boy was it awful.<br /><br />Another person commented that because they were an extra, they know what a great movie it is. You can be an extra in a film and be somewhat unaware of what a hideous misfire it is. Furthermore, having a bit part in a film often colors your thoughts on the film because few people want to announce to the world that they were in a film that was a complete piece of garbage.<br /><br />This film exemplifies the things that make these made-for-TV holiday instant classic wannabes the Mr.Hankey-fests that they are. The plot and dialogue were rubbish. The 'updating' of the concept fails where so many others fail equally, by trying to make something sooo modern and sooo faux-clever or jaded that they miss the mark by miles and fail to realize what made those Christmas classics into holiday staples in the first place. It's not just because they're old and people remember them nostalgically, it's because they connect with the audience and actually resonate where the modern TV movie wannabes don't. Ah yes, Santa Inc is corporate and has silly contractual obligations that would put Kattan's elf with delusions of grandeur into position as a potential substitute Extreme Santa when said CEO considers taking the year off. You want to satirize litigious happy America and its corporate culture? Fine, but do so in an entertaining and well-scripted way, don't fall back on the same tired modern cliché jokes that have failed so many other recent productions. There are some talented cast members and a director with some proved past hits, but everything misses the mark this time out. The pranksters over at South Park can make a more endearing family-friendly holiday special than this.<br /><br />If you are a fan of the classic Rankin Bass 'Animagic' stop-motion animated special of the same name, you will most likely want to avoid this like a bad fruitcake given you by a distant relative. It will only weigh heavy in your stomach afterwards without providing you any real delight or enjoyment. There isn't laughter or a heart-warming smile to be found from watching this, just stomach-churning groans and indigestion. The list of Christmas films in the past decade that might go on to become beloved classics is short indeed. This TV movie has earned itself a place on the other list...to receive a lump of coal on Christmas morning.