Live-action remake of an animated Christmas classic. I really shouldn't have to go further to explain why this movie was so horrible, but here goes: the plot was barely the same as the original, which was made in 1974. I grew up with the animated story and it was the one movie (besides The Grinch Who Stole Christmas, which none can top) I looked forward to each year. Some years, it wasn't shown. I missed it. Now, however, I would rather watch a reality show than this horrible attempt at a remake. (I loathe reality shows.) Live action. Ugh. The make-up was definitely wanting. Santa's beard was so fake that I could do better, and I certainly am not trained in the art of special make-up. Special effects? Make-up was horrible everywhere. Acting. Ick. What they did to the plot should never have been done. If you've ever seen the first one, you will understand when I say: STOP RUINING A GOOD THING, Hollywood! I miss my classic. My son, who is 12 this year, does, too. I could understand if the "remake" were actually better. That happens sometimes, in cases like The Italian Job and Ocean's Eleven. Hollywood was on the ball with those, but the original movies weren't so hot to start with. This classic has been forever ruined thanks to somebody who just can't keep his/her fingers out of the pie. What, did they just need a cheap project for a lot of stars that had contracted with them, but they didn't have anything better for them to do? I can think of lots of better things they could do, but I won't list them here. They really aren't legitimate jobs, anyway. John Goodman, you should be ashamed. You had to have known what a junk-fest this was going to be when you saw the script. Delta Burke, I'm sorry I actually understand your taking the role of Mrs Santa. You've pretty much vanished from the American consciousness. Some of the actors involved were in the same position, I'm sure. But, you know what??? Sometimes bad press isn't good. Sometimes having your name associated with a horrible mess like this movie hurts your career. I, for one, have a long memory. You remade this movie? Blacklisted. Until you come up with something I couldn't resist, you are no longer anyone I care to see. This movie was THAT bad. Avoid it at all costs.