I am one of the biggest Sonic Fans of all times. Sonic was my first game ever. And I used to watch the cartoons all the time. (Both the early and afternoon one) Then comes Sonic X. Don't get me wrong, I'm extremely happy that they made a new show in 9 years (I was 15 when this first aired) I believe. But there are things I have to pick with. I hate it. Plain and simple. Too much shoddy voice work. The flaws were in Mostly in the voice work. Rouge for one, I hate her voice. She sounds like a fifty year old hooker. When I heard Gamma's Voice for the first time. *shakes head* Also disappointed. Tail's voice, it was okay, but not good enough. Knuckles' voice, is just too deep and gravely for the famous Echidna. They casted Dan Green from Yu-Gi-Oh who plays Yami Yugi. What the heck kind of choice is that? he's Terrible, he makes everybody sound like they are a constipate 80 year old! All the others were fair. Sonic sounded like his old self, so did Amy (mostly) Cream, definitely. Big, yes, Eggman no. Shadow is a Fav. of mine, and they didn't get his right. tsk tsk tsk. Espio wasn't too bad. Charmy, I think they had Wendee Lee play him. I could be wrong <br /><br />The story. The story is bad. It overly contradicts with the games. And humans hog the spot light too much, as many have said time and time again. At least the characters all have their same personalities, (more or less) that I have grown up with. The fact of making it Anime is a brilliant idea. But cell-shading is a bad one. The music is very good. Minus the theme song.<br /><br />If you are a huge die hard fan of this show, you'll pay no attention to this. But they truly could have done better in my opinion. Even I can imitate voices, more closely to an extent. And I don't like acting Even though Yuji Naka (the game creator) is the executive producer, I doubt he has much power over the American version. If I were him, and I saw this, I'd weep. 4Kids is most likely to blame, but a tiny bit falls on the writers. It's sometimes breaks my heart to see Sonic in this format, and other times it fills my heart with joy to see Sonic making a comeback.