The film opens with a shot of a car in the distance travelling along a dirt track in the middle of thick forest towards the camera, we wait for what seems like ages before it reaches us. Inside are two Federal Agents (James Hart and John Kuhi). They stumble across a hippies camp site. Jackie (Debbie Link) is bathing, less than three minutes on the clock and we get some naked breast shots, I'm almost impressed. Realizing that this is camp of a bunch of illegal marijuana growers they attempt to arrest the hippies. Jackie is shot through her throat and killed, the other hippies, manage to turn the tables on the Feds and kill them both. Back in civilization the Federal Agents are missed. In their boss Briggs (Paul Haskin) office, we know it's a Feds office because there's a big table, swivel chair and an American flag, he tells agent Phillips (John Amplas) to spray the whole area with an experimental, untested, toxic, chemical herbicide called Dromax. Back at the camp site the hippies decide to harvest what they can and leave before more Feds turn up. As they start to harvest the crop five of the hippies (Bob Hanson, Gerald Cullen, Ronald Keinhuis, Kim Roff and make up effects man Craig Harris) get covered in Dromax as it's dumped by a constantly drunk crop sprayer (Bob Larson) from his plane. They all start to cough up blood and look very sick. The hippie leader (Dennis Graber) and his girlfriend (Debra O'Leary) both escaped being sprayed and quickly find out that the Dromax has turned their friends into bloodthirsty mindless zombies! A husband (Roger Mills) his wife (Pat Kellis) plus their two children Amy (Judy Brown) and Jimmy (Kevin Hanlon) and anyone else the hippie zombies can find are attacked. It's up to the local forest ranger Tom Cole (played by editor, producer, writer and director Charles McCrann as Charles Austin) his wife Polly (Beverly Shapiro) and his half brother Jay (Philip Garfinkel) who are on weekend fishing trip, to try and save the day and put an end to the hippie zombies reign of bloodthirsty terror! Starring in, edited, produced, written and directed by Charles McCrann, who according to the IMDb died in the 9/11 terrorist attacks in New York. Well, we know who to blame then. I didn't exactly hate it but at the same time I certainly didn't like it either. Generally quite poorly made with awful acting, cheap effects, extremely static boring photography and lackluster instantly forgettable music. There's next to no gore or violence in it, a chopped off hand, cut off leg, a few gunshot wounds and a few splashes of blood here and there, that's it. The only nudity is the woman taking a bath in the opening scenes. The script sucks, it has no excitement, tension and very little originality. The hippie zombies have no purpose, their bite doesn't turn others into zombies and their never shown eating anyone, they just kill for the hell of it. Most of the characters in the film aren't even given proper names which shows how much character development McCrann was interested in. The limp ending is terrible as well, it just sort of ends all of a sudden. The dialogue is very sparse and some of the worst I've heard in a long time, none of the characters are developed at all, I couldn't care less what happened to anyone at any point in the film. This film has various alternate titles including Bloodeaters, Toxic Zombies, Blood Butchers and it's known as Forest of Fear here in the UK. Poor, don't waste your time.