Blood Lake is, I'm sad to say a really quite bad film. In fact, were it not for the fact that I have seen some really, powerfully wretched films in my time I might be inclined to say that Blood Lake is one of the worst out there. Sadly though, I have suffered through some absolute abominations and so I actually found Blood Lake to be comparably watchable, its myriad flaws not proving as bothersome as they might. The first trouble that is instantly apparent is the weak, weak acting. I don't expect Royal Shakespeare Company standard work from a film like this but pretty well all the characters show the very barest minimum of commitment to their roles. Apart from the kid who plays young Tony that is, some young fellow called Travis Krasser or somesuch. Now Tony is (insert drumroll) perhaps the most teeth grindingly obnoxious, infuriating, angry making characters ever in one of these sort of films. He's a sex obsessed, lewd, crude and tedious little brat whose every word makes you want to reach into the movie and smack him in the face. Its hard to figure why he's even in the film with his equally young girlfriend, given that everyone else there is notably older and he stinks up the joint in spectacular fashion. He's so noxious its almost funny and his quest to get laid is more disturbing than any of th so called horror in this film. Speaking of which, the killing doesn't start properly till 50 minutes in or so and the lighting doesn't allow for any significant nastiness, though a couple of the kills are mildly satisfying in a rock bottom kind of cheapo style. Before that there is water skiing, card playing, occasional use of a typical but fun slasher score and some relatively rocking tunes by a group called Voyager. Most of which is redundant, but the sheer ineptitude and lack of point is somewhat comic in effect. There really is little going for this film, even by the occasionally barrel scraping standards of Eighties slasher films this is remarkably shoddy, about as accomplished as a cheap old home movie, but for enthusiasts of terrible films there are some bright spots. Not really recommended unless like me, your'e passionate about dreck.