I just came back from "Solaris" and I really don't know what to think of it. I knew nothing about it beforehand, but I was expecting it to be a run-of-the-mill sci-fi film. Well, "Solaris" is definitely not a typical sci-fi, which is good, but mostly bad. It's a love it or hate it movie. I love films that mess with your mind, but this was too much for me. The total absence of action was fine with me, but people looking for thrills and chills will have to do with multiple butt shots of Clooney's posterior. <br /><br />Of all the movies I've seen in a theater, I've never been so emotionless before. Not once did I close my eyes in fear, laugh, or express any other emotions. All 20-some people in the theater were like zombies, or maybe they were just asleep. When I left the theater, I felt like I'd just come out of a coma. Watching this movie is more like watching a painting come to life, I don't know how else to say it. The visuals are gorgeous and the acting was quite good, but the story is a mess. Even the most intelligent moviegoers will probably walk out feeling stupid for not knowing what was going on. Unlike other movies of this nature, seeing it multiple times probably won't help you understand it.<br /><br />The story begins right away and draws you in, but you probably won't have a clue what's going on until a half hour in. By the end, I still didn't know much of the plot, but I didn't walk away completely empty. It was a surreal experience that is somewhat rewarding, yet it was a total head trip. George Clooney plays a psychologist or scientist (not clarified) that has been summoned to check out the strange phenomena happening in Solaris, a world in space. He is soon greeted by his deceased wife and finds out the two remaining crew members also have "visitors" that are dead. I'm going to stop there because if I go on, I'll blow the whole plot. The plot is pretty thin, so the action moves at a snail's pace to make this short story into a 90-minute film. If you can make it through this movie, you can make it through any movie. On an artistic scale, I'd give it a 8/10, but entertainment-wise, I'll give it a 2.