We start in school as a young Victor Frankenstein (Ralph Bates) is bored and decides looking at anatomy sketches would be more fun at which his teacher (Neil Wilson) is offended by. Arriving home at his Castle, Victor finds his Father, Baron Frankenstein (George Belbin) has just had sex with the 16(!) year old housekeeper Alys (Kate O'Mara, who was actually 31 when she made this). After a bit of cheek and sexual innuendo aimed at his Father Victor asks him if he can go to University in Vienna to further his studies. He Father says no and that he shouldn't be so interested in science at his young age, and adds "you'll see me in my grave before I let you go gallivanting off to Vienna for a couple of years". Victor 'fixes' his Fathers hunting rifles which backfires killing him while out shooting. Victor gets his wish and goes to University in Vienna. Unfortunately, once there he manages to get the Deans (James Cossins) daughter pregnant. After the Dean starts to talk about marriage Victor decides to head back home, and convinces his friend Wilhelm Kassner (Graham James) to join him so they can continue their studies and experiments back at his Castle in his Laboratorty. While on horseback travelling Victor and Wilhelm stumble across a gang of highwaymen robbing one of Victor's old school friends Elizabeth Heiss (Veronica Carlson) and her Father Professor Heiss (Bernard Archard). They intervene and save them by shooting two of the highwaymen. Once he is alone with the bodies Victor cuts one of their heads off with a large knife. Back at his Castle he finds Alys is still the housekeeper, Victor picks up where his Father left off by having sex with her on a regular basis. Victor and Wilhelm continue their experiments, and after successfully bringing a Tortoise back to life Victor decides to try his hand at something a bit more ambitious. He hires a local grave robber (Denis Price) who makes his wife (Joan Rice) do all the work and dig up the bodies, to provide him with the necessary parts. Using the various body parts delivered to him, Victor creates a human being but needs one more ingredient before it's complete, a fresh human brain. He manages to bring the stitched together monster (David Prowse) to life, but because of an accident the brain was damaged by shards of glass and renders Victor's creation near uncontrollable and extremely violent. The problems mount for Victor as his friend Wilhelm gets cold feet over the experiments, an old friend Lt. Becker (Jon Finch) starts to poke around as he investigates various murders around the Castle, Alys tries to blackmail him and he has the added hassle of having Elizabeth move into the Castle when her house is repossessed as he sets about trying to control the monster to do his bidding. Co-written and directed by Jimmy Sangster this was the sixth film in Hammer's Frankenstein series and was made between Frankenstein must be Destroyed (1969) and Frankenstein and the Monster from Hell (1973). I personally thought this was a pretty poor film. Hammer have seemed to abandoned all the things that worked so well in the other Frankenstein films, the sets look cheap, tacky and like their made from cardboard. The music credited to Malcolm Williamson doesn't even try to be scary or build tension as it instead comes across as silly especially whenever the monster is on screen. I felt the film didn't have the atmosphere or vibe about it that many Hammer horror films do. The worse part of this film is the script by Sangster and Jeremy Burnham which plays more like a comedy than a horror. When Victor tells the grave robber that he needs fresh body parts he replies "anything I bring you would get past the Government meat inspectors". When Victor reanimates a severed arm he makes it stick two fingers up, Victor quips "I think I'll send it to the Dean as a going away present". There is a scene where Victor invites Elizabeth and her Father to dinner, at this point Victor needs a brain and on his anatomy diagram he has marked it down as '25'. While sat opposite him Victor sees a '25' written in black felt pen on the Professor's forehead! Needless to say it looks incredibly silly. Frankenstein in this film comes across as a spoiled, arrogant, cheeky and wise-cracking little sod. Far removed from Peter Cushing's dignified portrayal of the character. And as for Kate O'Mara being passed off as a 16 year servant, well forget it Sangster and one more thing would you like to buy a bridge I have for sale in London? There is no sex, nudity, blood, gore or violence as it's all merely hinted at and one or two quick shots of various severed limbs, that's your lot. Hammer have made much better Frankenstein films so make sure you avoid this one and see one of those instead. Disappointing, and strays too far from it's roots.