let's start off with the first big problem of this movie. the back of the DVD says "a stripper". now, forgive me if i'm wrong, but the concept of a stripper is to strip until she is naked for people's enjoyment. am i not right? OK good. i thought i was crazy. When the main character is a stripper you should be GUARANTEED nudity. however, in this WONDERFUL tale, we get a half assed actress who strips down to her big underwear and leaves the stage. are...are you serious? did a stripper just.... not strip? oh god this movie's going to suck already. it was probably something retarded like she didn't want to get naked for the camera. Well here's a hint. if the character design is a stripper and you don't want to get naked... DON'T ACCEPT THE ROLE! god. it's not that hard. whew. sorry about that. now that i got THAT rant out of the way, onto this convoluted mess of a movie.<br /><br />Miss stripperella finishes her fake stripping, leaves the building, talks to her boyfriend on her cell, (cause yeah. i would TOTALLY have a stripper as my girlfriend) and then proceeds to get hit by a taxi in slow motion (which was actually mildly amusing). she wakes up in a hospital where she sees the grim reaper own the taxi driver, gets drugged by a nurse, and wakes up in an abandoned mental hospital. OH MY GOD HOW MANY OF THESE ARE THERE?!. seriously it seems every other movie has an abandoned hospital. why are there so many?! sigh. anyway, she meets the rest of the people there. a supposed mute artist, a blind girl, miss wrist slitty and some other people you don't care about. we then meet doc brown. no he didn't come back from the future. just a dude named doc brown. who apparently is the only guy in charge in this building... by himself, and for some reason gets repeated heart attacks. He doesn't lock up our heroine at first, only threatening her with a tazer. Hell, i would just beat his ass with a chair, but that's me. anyway, the boyfriend is looking for her ala silent hill style and can't seem to find her. Everyone around her gets owned while she keeps having random visions of her in a bath. no don't get excited, they don't show anything. eventually the boyfriend finds her, she goes into her subconscious, goes back in time (AHA! I KNEW it was doc brown!) to her accident and has the grim reaper get hit by the taxi. she is then transported to a mausoleum where the grim reaper turns out is a mummy (wtf?) and the sun then makes him explode. and then the lovers are finally together! and then she drowns in the tub. the end! no. i'm not kidding. that's how the movie ends.<br /><br />The main problem with this movie is the fact that it's all sorts of confusing. ESPECIALLY the ending. the ending made no sense whatsoever. so he's a mummy grim reaper? (scratches head) and why does the sun kill everything?! she keeps having weird visions too which don't fit really well into this movie. The acting is also pretty terrible, but the worst has to be the grim reaper. he looks like the fisherman from i know what you did last summer and voldemort's secret gay love child. he walked like he had a gimp leg and he was INCREDIBLY nonthreatening, especially when he started STABBING people with a scythe. yeah. i scratched my head on that too. All in all, this movie is bad because it doesn't make any sense. it's not the WORST movie ever, but it definitely deserves to be in the same family. maybe the estranged retarded cousin of the crap family, but still in it. The Grim reaper in a game for your soul, wins 2 games. out of 10.