Maybe the fact is that I'm just not a fan of Charles Dickens' novel "A Tale of Two Cities". I read the novel, or rather, I was forced into reading it, and I am only being honest when I say that the novel was not one of my favorites. Yet, this screen version of the story, was even worse. It made several critical mistakes and is overall, just not a movie that motivates. It tries to be creative and nifty, but fails.<br /><br />Perhaps the biggest mistake it made was that it tried to cram literally almost EVERYTHING that was in Charles Dickens' original novel into the storyline. What the screenwriter(s) did not realize is that some things that work out perfectly in a novel do not work out in a movie. The movie lasts for quite a long time and right from the beginning, it wasn't very entertaining at all. Many scenes dragged on for too long, another mistake, and I can tell the director was trying to be creative, such as in the love scene.<br /><br />Another failure of "A Tale of Two Cities" is how poorly executed everything is. The scene with the hanging had an okay buildup, but the action moment that was upcoming was executed in the poorest manner. The guy did not fall at all. He just kind of immediately froze and hung like a dummy. He should have kicked and strangled to death the way he was hanged like that. Acting was another problem, it was okay, but nothing great. That Miss Pross girl, when arguing with Madame Defarge, was talking and baring her teeth as if she was going to bite Madame Defarge like an animal. And their fight was just plain dull.<br /><br />Overall, neither the novel nor this screen adaptation are really anything that sparked interest in me. And another thing is that it didn't spark interest in the others who were forced into watching this along with me. Maybe for some people, fans of the novel mostly, this is good. But I'm not judging it based on the novel. I'm judging it as a film. And it has too many flaws, there's literally no effective creativity, and it just doesn't work.