Man... Well, first off I promise I'm not a 'Troll' and I'm not going to say something brainless and general like 'worst movie ever' because it isn't : ) However... after thinking about it honestly, I THINK what this film is, is a good example of what probably could have been a good film and I don't know WHAT the hell was done to it, but man oh man... the result is literally STUNNINGLY awful. Immediately I thought that it's GOT to be the director, it HAS to be! But, I checked and I GUESS the guy credited with it did direct 'RIGHTEOUS KILL' which was quite good. Then I saw in the Trivia section that he replaced the guy who directed 'CONFIDENCE' which was a fr i gg'n BRILLIANT film. So, I'm rather mystified as to what went wrong.<br /><br />Now, apparently there must have been serious trouble with the production because of it being delayed so much in addition to the change in directors. I can't even begin to surmise WHY the result was so poor, but something sure happened all right.<br /><br />Well, for specifics, I mean, HOW can you possibly make Al Pacino look that bad... It wasn't really him per se but the more I'm thinking about it maybe it was whoever the hell put the thing together as the finished product. It's like whoever decided what takes to use and whoever was in charge of editing the damn thing I believe must be the one(s) that ruined it. Funny too, because there IS indeed a good film in here somewhere; the story itself is very good, the actors obviously are good. LeeLee is as stinkin' BEAUTIFUL as ever, although that is not really relevant : ) Even the production and camera-work in and of themselves were very polished and well done. But, I don't know... It's the way it's all put together that looks so damn awkward.<br /><br />The scenes where there is SUPPOSED to be high drama come off as VERY amateurish; GEEZ, just check out the scene between Al and the cop friend of his. Can you say 'STILTED...?' 'AWKWARD AS HELL...?' I've honestly seen literally thousands of films, but I sure cannot remember one where a very good idea with good actors and supposedly very good directors (both of them) turned out so dang horribly... I was thinking 'Was it the script' because so much of the dialog and interaction was so awkward; but a good director can work around that and fix it enough so that it doesn't turn out THIS bad. I seriously would LOVE to know EXACTLY what the hell happened...