A Japanese-American-Italian collaboration on this sci-fi production, mostly revolving around the activities on space station Gamma 3. With a strange meteor on collision with the Earth, Commander Rankin (Robert Horton) is given the Armageddon type plot: blow up the meteor. Upon this mission a moldy piece of green, undulating jello is discovered. A small piece is inadvertently brought back to the station. For the rest of the movie, Rankin and the commander of the space station (Commander Elliot - Richard Jaekel), look for ways to curtail the growing green, moldy jello outbreak. Apparently the mold absorbs all types of energy and can grow a new self from a few cells. With the absorption of energy the jello turns into a mayhem causing six foot tall, two footed, two armed, two tentacled (the ends have pincers on them) asparagus with one giant red eye (that shoots energy out of it).<br /><br />This is a classic B movie archetype, mixed with Godzilla-style models, ships and equipment. Somehow Robert Horton gets the billing over Richard Jaeckel (Hollywood veteran know for many movies including the sarge in the Dirty Dozens). Robert is looking a little worn in this movie, giving anybody wearing a mask of an old Ronald Reagan a run for his money. The conflict arises mostly from these two characters. Apparently the two used to be friends and have since had a falling out. To add to the conflict, is Dr. Benson (ex-Bond girl, Luciana Paluzzi). Apparently Rankin used to date her before, and she is now Vince's fiancé. <br /><br />The acting is typical of most sci-fi B movies, terrible to average. This is mostly ranked up by Robert Horton (GIANT HAM AWARD WINNER) and the extras. Richard Jaekel pulls off his well known straight, tough guy. Luciana provides very little distraction from the doldrum in space and this movie. The addition of some new space age dances (resembling polka dancing on speed) and the intro theme song (flower power remix of green slime) is the Vegeta in this stew. The movie does reasonably well considering the limited budget. The film itself is not very endearing. I recommend it as a mindless alternative to prime time network TV or as a late night cap. Definitely not a keeper.<br /><br />-Celluloid Rehab