<br /><br />Oh, man....I finished watching this movie a couple of hours ago and I'm still laughing hysterically when I think about it. This movie is so bad that it becomes an undeniable must for everyone who's into bad cinema. The worst possible cinema actually, this is stuff like Edward D. Wood made it. Of course, I still respect the efforts that cast and crew put into this but you can't help but roll over the floor and laugh. This is Japanese SciFi cult ( even though they used American actors, they STILL dubbed it...badly ) coming to you straight out of the era when cinema actually had evoluated a lot. But The Green Slime didn't join this trend. Prepare yourself for some amateurish cinema, yet made with a lot of love and passion for the genre.<br /><br />The story is about a blob of green mucus coming straight from outer space. It got here as an uninvited visitor when some heroes destroyed an asteroide. By the way...forget about Armageddon !! The Green Slime really shows you how to blow up an big block of rock. The mucus has the ability to build itself up to green one-eyed midgets with an elephant trunk and they make adorable noises. I assure you, one look at them and you're immediately sold...these little critters stole my heart. Naturally, they don't come with good intentions !! They go after everything that is human and they suck up energy...how ? Don't bother to ask yourself that question...The "scriptwriters" didn't bother neither. In between, all the inevitable clichés aren't forgotten. So, as you can see, the special effects and costumes are next to none but it sure doesn't stop there ! Don't forget the space-station and rockets on wires, the cardboard sets and the acting that is really Oscar worthy. *cough*cough*<br /><br />Finally, They're are the small but highly memorable and hilarious little aspects about it. For example, the theme song is terrific !! You'll feel the urge to buy the single of that asap since it's sooooo catchy. And a very honorable mention goes out to Robert Horton's haircut. Heck, I would give this movie a rating 10 out of 10 if only for his flawless head of hair. No matter how many helmets he puts on and off ... no matter how many dangerous stunts he has to perform, his hair remains perfectly combed all the time. Truly a haircut you can set your clock to !