I don't want to born opens in a hospital delivery room where mum to be Lucy Carlesi (Joan Collins) is giving birth. Dr Finch (horror film veteran Donald Pleasence) is on hand to assist. He looks at at the nurse and claims, "this baby doesn't want to be born". So he gives the little lad a helping hand, using some large medical tongs he grabs hold of the baby and pulls him out, nice. Waiting in some room elsewhere in the hospital the dad Gino Carlesi (Ralph Bates) hears the good news from Dr Finch. Finch informs Gino both mother and baby are fine. However things take a turn for the worse almost immediately, they hear screams, they rush to Lucy who's cheek has been scratched by the little lad. Dr Finch puts it down to basic survival instincts and that Lucy was holding him too tightly. Once the family are back home things don't improve. The baby wrecks his room, breaking and throwing things all over the place, and he starts to have a violent fit of some sort when Lucy and Gino try to christen him in a church. Lucy knows something is wrong, talking to her friend Mandy (Caroline Munro) she confesses that she thinks he may be possessed by the devil! Mandy, as any good friend probably would, tries to comfort her. But Lucy starts to tell a story, the film now goes into flashback as we see Lucy dancing on stage at a sleazy strip club. Back stage fellow performer Hercules (George Claydon), a dwarf(!) hits on her. She makes it perfectly clear shes not interested, the clubs owner Tommy Morris (John Steiner) bursts in and throws Hercules out and has sex with Lucy. Hercules seems to hold a grudge because as Lucy is walking out of the club he jumps out and puts a curse on any future child Lucy might have, he says "your child will be as big as I am small, and will be possessed by the devil!" And thats about it really, thats all he does, and it works too. Either that or this kid has some serious problems! Add Ginos sister, a nun from Italy sister Albana (Eileen Atkins), extremely worried babysitters, Dr Finch constantly trying to explain the baby's problems through medical reasoning, bizarre deaths, an exorcism and we have the mid 70's horror I don't want to be born! Directed by Peter Sasdy this is a real product of the 70's, everything screams the 70's, clothes, hairstyles, cars, the interior of houses and offices, music, the way London looks, absolutely everything. Thats not really a criticism, just an observation. The acting is OK, I especially liked John Steiner as the sleazy wise cracking strip club owner. There's a bit of nudity and some sex but no real violence or gore in it, but the killings are good enough. I think the film fails slightly because the idea just isn't developed at all, the whole film is basically the baby being violent and killing the odd person, other characters like Lucys friend Mandy and Dr Finch are introduced, but nothing is done with them over the bare minimum. One more thing I found odd is that the baby is never given a name, at least no one calls it by any name at any point. The film gets a bit dull after a while, and it drags in a couple of places too. OK I guess, nothing special, worth a watch if you can catch it on TV for free (like me), but its not really worth paying good money for.