The Best Man was a good film. It was very enjoyable to watch. It was refreshing to see very beautiful African-American people on screen. They were not only intelligent, educated, goal-oriented and purposeful, the films portrayal did not conform to the typical white "romantic comedies." The film has been criticized by some as being too black or ethnic. The film has been criticized for using the term "n***ger." I found the style of communication among the gentlemen in the film as cool and laid back. There was something very eloquent in the way the characters carried themselves. I believe the film would have lost it's integrity if it had conformed to a "Notting Hill" like appeal. It would have made the film seem very artificial and pretentious. Rather, the fact that the film did not assimilate to a mainstream romantic comedy genre should be considered a credit. It shows that African-Americans can be intelligent and purposeful in life and yet remain integral to black culture. The film included humor, sentiments, and expressions proudly exemplified in black America. But then again some people like pretentious and artificial films. Finally, I think this film is more important for white Americans then black Americans. For black America it finally provides some equality to how the black American experience is being presented on film (not one gun or bag of cocaine). However, mainstream American society has an internalized and very limited view of what it means to be an African-American. And anytime an African-American escapes outside of the box (as this film graceful did), it holds he or she under scrutiny. Hopeful for white America the film will help de-internalize the mal-depiction of African-Americans in Hollywood and society. And then maybe through these films both blacks and whites can find some common ground and truly co-exist with mutual love and respect. I hope this film creates a standard for black film making. It looks like Malcolm Lee has started off on the right foot. I apologize if my comments sound too political. I know its just a film:-)