So that was essentially the worst, least enjoyable movie I have ever seen. It was the least satisfying, and as the horribleness continued I wanted to walk out. I decided that wasn't a viable option, so I stayed. Once I was resolute in my continuing to sit through the most dissatisfying film I'd ever seen I was less fidgety and distressed; I had resigned to how much the movie frustrated me. From the very beginning the complete disregard for Nicky was totally frustrating to me. Over and over he tried to do the right thing, and even tried to stand up for himself but everyone in the entire movie just walked all over him. Nothing could go right, and the movie continued without any redemption for all of the bad things that were happening, leaving me completely frustrated and unsatisfied.<br /><br />Tacy acts like a child throughout the entire movie, as perhaps only Lucille Ball can do (even that name seems like a child's nickname for "Tracy" after they couldn't pronounce the "r"). The tantrum she throws at the Trailer Show completely reminded me of a child (maybe me when I was younger?) getting very excited about some crazy plastic toy that had lots of bells and whistles, then begging their mother to buy it for them and explaining how many amazing ways they'll use it and how this specific G.I. Joe with Kung Fu hitting action will be able to help her chop vegetables if they put a knife in it's hand. She rationalizes it in so many ways that seem artificial, and Nicky, as he does throughout the movie, gives in and listens to her, though he knows it's a bad idea. She is thus spoiled by her poor husband, trying to be nice and give her what she wants while knowing that things he gives into will be bad in the end.<br /><br />Even when he puts his foot down, like a mischievous child she circumvents and tricks him, which inevitably turns out badly because the thing he was standing for indeed held disastrous consequences. Much like so many comedies we can see the set up that will lead to some sort of disaster and/or pratfall, except that in this film I didn't feel like the punchline was funny. Any time the irony came to light of how Tacy had screwed up and caused harm to Nicky, it wasn't like some silly prank, but more of a blow to his manhood and the destruction and ungrateful treatment of something he had done to try to make her happy.<br /><br />The ending didn't satisfy me after being tortured for an hour and a half by destruction, ungratefulness, deception, and bad luck. I think the movie was supposed to be cute and funny (one awkward duet does not a cute film make), but the conflict seemed too deep and destructive for me to ever let it slide by. The entire movie I was exasperated by the frustrating situations that were never funny and never redeemed. This was one of the most, probably the most, intolerable movies I have ever seen.