I'm sorry, but I'm absolutely perplexed at all those people who claim that this is the most accurate film adaptation of Wuthering Heights. It is NOT at ALL! As a devout reader of Emily Bronte and beloved fan of the novel (I've managed to read it three times in less than a month) I can safely say that this adaptation doesn't even come close to capturing the spirit of Emily Bronte or the structure of the novel. To begin with, Nelly and Joseph's parts are drastically reduced.I mean, I was atleast expecting Nelly to narrate the damn movie. But she doesn't, in fact, she hardly appears in the movie at all. (by the by, they also chose a really old actress to play Nelly. She is supposed to be Hindley's age but instead looks 50 throughout the entire film). Robert Cavanagh delivers a decent performance as the conflicted and tormented Heathcliff. Orla Brady, however, just falls short from portraying the fiery and vivacious spirit of Catherine Earnshaw. Her defiant, mercurial, and headstrong nature that is evident in the book is not carried through in the movie. Aside from this, they also didn't put much consideration into the age continuity. In the novel, Cathy and Heathcliffe are both around 12 when they meet the Lintons. In this film, they skip 10 years altogether and introduce them as adults from the start. Other characters that were reduced included Hareton, Cathy Linton, and Linton himself. In fact, the entire second generation of characters in the film are as far removed from the context of the characters in the novel as possible. I dunno, it's just too many faults to list. All I know is that I kept grumbling and shouting "NO! that's not the way it went in the novel!" or "Hey, they said more than that!" I give credit to the director for atleast attempting to make a semi-accurate adaptation...even though he failed miserably. I'm beginning to think that Wuthering Heights really is an IMPOSSIBLE novel to film...or at least impossible to film in a way that can satisfy the true Wuthering Heights fans. Maybe if they made it into a mini-series/soap opera...