Classy romantic comedies about African-Americans that neither deal drugs nor go on booty calls were unusual fare for Hollywood in the pre-Tyler Perry era. "Waiting to Exhale" (1995) charted this change of attitude in the depiction of blacks that caught on in later movies like "Soul Food," "Eve's Bayou," "Love Jones," and "The Wood." Director Malcolm D. Lee's witty, sophisticated, but dramatically well-rounded yarn "The Best Man" is the latest to capitalize on this trend. Despite some profanity and raunchy sexual allusions, "The Best Man" endorses marriage, fidelity and religious values. Nobody gets shot, stabbed, or coked up the nose. The characters qualify as intelligent, positive, upscale role models and stereotypes appear conspicuously absent in this seriocomic account of a weekend college reunion before a classmate's wedding.<br /><br />Happily, "The Best Man" shuns racism either as a political issue or as a narrative theme. Actually, this lighthearted but occasionally down to earth comedy of errors looks and sounds like something Oscar Wilde or George Bernard Shaw might have penned. The point is that "The Best Man" emerges as a polished mainstream comedy where the characters are first and foremost people with all of the foibles and frailties of mankind. A strong ensemble cast headed by charismatic Taye Diggs, who won over audiences in "When Stella Got Her Groove Back," distinguishes writer Lee's accomplished directorial debut. Unlike his famous, more often controversial brother Spike Lee, Malcolm sticks to the story and avoids tangents.<br /><br />Chicago author Harper Stewart (Taye Diggs of "Go") has just written his first novel. Appropriately entitled 'Unfinished Business,' Stewart's about to be published story has been picked up by Oprah Winfrey's book club. Life couldn't be better for the novice novelist. The froth of Harper's success fizzles when he learns that his ex-college flame, BET-TV producer Jordan Armstrong (Nia Long of "Friday") has circulated an advance copy of his semi-autobiographical effort among his close chums. When Harper arrives in New York City for the weekend festivities surrounding the impending marriage of football star Lance Sullivan (Morris Chestnut of "Half Past Dead") and Mia Morgan (Monica Calhoun of "Love & Basketball"), he finds himself up to his ears in hot water.<br /><br />Naturally, Harper's friends have perused his novel. They bicker about who he used as models for his fictional characters. Things come to a boil when Lance suspects the worst. He believes that his sweetheart Mia may have bedded down with Harper, the guy he chose to serve as his best man. Reluctantly, Harper confesses, and the once philandering football star blackens his eye at their stag party and then threatens to throw him off the balcony. Lance calls off the wedding without warning Mia and then storms out of the party. Harper realizes grimly that he must patch things up. The next day everybody shows up at the church in their finest garb, but poor Mia has no idea why Lance is tardy.<br /><br />"The Best Man" is the equivalent of Terry McMillan for guys. They form a closely-knit group of friends who have achieved success of their own right after college. Predictably, their reunion sparks old rivalries and bitter jealousies. Harper finds himself in trouble long before he arrives in the Big Apple to celebrate with his friends. Just as his publishing career is gaining momentum, Harper's girlfriend goads him about a commitment that he balks at giving. Quentin (Terrence Howard of "Iron Man") is a cynical career drifter who cannot find a woman for himself but who doles out advice to Julian Murch (Harold Perrineau, Jr., of "The Matrix Reloaded") about how to deal with his prima donna girlfriend Shelby (Melissa De Sousa of "Biker Boyz"). Finally, Lance has decided to settle down now that he has inked a $5-million contract to play for the New York Giants.<br /><br />"The Best Man" towers as a four-star romantic comedy in the tradition of "The Big Chill" with characters who never get short-changed and an ending that is agreeably believable.