I accidentally happened to see this movie with my daughter and a friend of hers. How horrifying and sad! The two main characters, Lindsay Lohan and Megan Fox are supposedly rivals, but they should be friends, as both of them are the most obnoxious brats I have ever seen on film. This movie made my skin crawl, as I sat there watching these grotesque phony girls! The supporting girl characters were a lot nicer and more humble, and whenever the supporting cast was on screen it was a relief. This movie is supposed to contrast the difference between the two brats, but it seems like they just compete against each other to see who is the biggest "Drama Queen" Brat. It has to be the most shallow film about teenagers that has ever been released. Lindsay Lohan is given tons of parental support, and all she does is squirm and complain and then tells her parents that they make HER HIGHNESS uncomfortable! A little sensitivity would have been nice for the millions of children who are living in single-parent homes (or Foster Care) and can only dream of being taken to a concert by either or both parents! It is interesting that all of the Bratty kids in this film are shown as having both parents around to give them support, drive them around, buy them whatever they want, etc. The Megan Fox character has to be the most hateful teenager that I have ever seen on film. Wow! Where did these obnoxious kids come from?? There have been lots of movies about obnoxious kids, but "Drama Queen" really has raised the bar when it comes to movies about spoiled bratty selfish obnoxious kids. The performances of Megan Fox and/or Lindsay Lohan would be perfect for such films as The Omen, The Exorcist, Village of The Damned, or any other film about Demonic Children. At some point during "Drama Queen" you will probably feel sorry for the characters who play the friends of both girls, and their parents. "Drama Queen" is a real dog, and not even Old Yeller could have brought any human feelings or kindness out of Lindsay Lohan or Megan Fox. I give "Drama Queen" ten screeching yelps from the hounds of hell, where "Drama Queen" belongs!