Director Franco stars as Mathis Vogel. An ex Czech priest who was thrown out of the Church because his methods were to 'severe'. He is also an escapee from a mental asylum who is wanted by German police for crimes against minors. At the time the film takes place he is in Paris, writing sadomasochistic stories for 'The Garter and Dagger'. The editor Raymond Franvel (Pierre Taylou) and his rather sexy secretary Anne (Lina Romay) are involved in staging fake black masses and satanic rituals, it's a hobby I suppose. The loony Vogel is deeply in love with Anne, which I can understand. He rents an apartment across the road from Anne so he can spy on her and her lesbian lover roommate Rose (Lynn Monteil). Vogel overhears a conversation between Raymond and Anne talking about organizing another one of their satanic rituals and believes them to be serious. After torturing the address out of a nightclub prostitute Gina (Carole Riviere), he witnesses one of the rituals in which he believes a girl is murdered, he leaves before the girl reappears on stage unharmed. Vogel then goes around in the name of god torturing and killing the people involved, cleansing their souls in the process, and eventually kidnapping the sexy Anne, who he keeps tied up naked in his house so he can torture her whenever he wants. By this time the police, Inspector Tanner (Olivier Mathot) and his Deputy Malou (Roger Germanes) are hot on his tail, but will they be able to save Anne and put an end to Vogel's twisted ways? Directed, co written and starring Jesus Franco this is pure exploitation trash. Franco fills the screen with so much nudity and sex it becomes tiresome. Just about every female in the film is there just to take her clothes off. Regular sex, orgies, lesbianism, sexual assault and S&M, it's all in here somewhere! Not really much blood or violence, a dove has it's head cut off and Franco stabs and cuts a few people but that's about it. The story is silly and relies on a lot of coincidences and assumption, it doesn't quite work. I couldn't quite help but think that the story was just an excuse to get as many people naked as possible. The ending feels very rushed, almost as if Franco ran out of money or lost interest. The film looks OK, the photography is decent considering it's a Franco film, as are the locations. I liked the music, in particular the main theme. It's certainly better than most of the Franco films I've seen, it's nowhere near as weird, boring, inept or surreal as some. There's a cheap and sleazy feel to it as well. Difficult to recommend, and I didn't really think too much of it.