If you've read all the other reviews you will notice that the first ones - the negative ones - came from people who saw the 1994 series first then experienced the 2000 PAX remake with shock and horror. The newer reviews - the positive reviews - came from people who saw the 2000 PAX version on DVD which were released prior to the DVD release of the 1994 series. People tend to like the version they saw first but if you haven't seen any certainly the series is so much better in every way - acting, tone, pace, story line, cinematography, casting, directing, orchestration. And be reminded that when the original series was canceled, a massive fan response got the show rebooted, this was their fan base. Basically the producers told them "thanks, now leave".<br /><br />One can review the remake from the perspective of seeing it first or seeing it second. If you've already seen it, I can't do anything about that, but if you haven't see the series first (and best yet skip the remakes). If you've see the series (and they are magical) here's what to expect in the remake.<br /><br />The first of the three PAX movies plays like a parody without jokes. Bits of pieces of the year long series are randomly tossed into the first hour so all that exists are the famous scenes poorly executed without any build up or understanding of why they are there except for viewers to go "oh yeah, I remember that scene, it was in that story about..." They are presented here as punch lines without the build up. One could say it was like watching flashbacks of the previous season, but if it were meant to be a continuation why choose actors that don't resemble the originals one iota? Apparently the casting agent didn't see the original series either. Casting a lead character a foot taller than the original. Come on. Really? Imagine if one of the Rocky sequels had recast the Talia Shire role with Cher and you'll get the idea. Yet, the actors try to do impressions of the original actors mannerisms and speech inflections and the costumes are exactly the same. And story lines and characters were changed, some characters eliminated and an entire new character added with some nonsense about a female aviator who crash lands in Cutter Grove. Just what we need when condensing a year's worth of episodes into 90 minutes is to add a new character and subplot. What a mess. And all because fans wanted to know who Christy was going to marry. Sometimes things are best left unanswered for the next two films get even worse. Was there ANYTHING I liked? It had a neat introduction where we see an elder Christy (Shelia Moore) returning to Cutter Gap and telling the story which is narrated throughout the three films. This device would have worked great to recap the story lines for the first film IF they had followed the original story lines.