It is extremely obvious that the director and writers did not do their homework as this terrible movie is utterly crammed with inaccuracies.<br /><br />Now the original inhabitants of Palestine / modern Israel may have been Hamitic (black-skinned), but the Isrealites who left Egypt pretty well wiped out much of the aboriginal population of that first area (Refer to the Book of Joshua in the Old Testment). By the way, God is not human, and so is neither black nor white. But Mary did come from the line of David (Semetic, not black). Therefore it is hard to imagine that a sub-Saharan African could play the role of Jesus with credibility. But it is the plot of the movie that plays games with the actual events. There is time to point out only a few errors.<br /><br />The Bible is the source of Christ's passion, and the movie hardly had one legitimate Bible quote. Example: Peter (also a black man in the movie) identified himself as Jesus (to protect him from the soldiers). But the movie has the Roman saying to Peter, "You are not black enough, Jew!" (!) Who researched that? And who researched the so-called love affair between Judas and Mary Magdalene? Note that Jesus never once spoke anything bad against the Romans, and there was no Roman vendetta. Think about this for a moment: Jesus rode triumphantly on a donkey into Jerusalem just a few days before his death. The Romans did not stop him. So What was this Roman manhunt that Jesus ducked to avoid detection? Actually the Bible treats the pagan Romans well. Jesus did not come for them, but for the Jews. If Jesus needed soldiers, He could have summoned legions of angels (as He said). Furthermore, who researched the so-called tension between white and black Jews!? Where is that fable written? Another ridiculous scene: The movie had Peter holding a knife to Matthew's throat (!) because the latter had implied that Peter was the traitor. Then the movie, contrary to the Bible, had the Romans arrest Jesus. Jesus was in fact arrested by the Temple Guards (Jewish, not Roman). Just read Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John for the correct information. In fact, just read the Bible. If you like religious movies, see Jesus of Nazareth for a superior portrayal.<br /><br />I hope that folks realize that there is a judgment day, and that the spreading of false information about God and the Son may not go well with those who are thus judged.