A motocross team backed by Tommy, who has invented a super fuel that will change the way of racing, must trek across the desert to compete in a competition. However Tommy gets cold feet and Rachel (aka Ruby) decides that she will take the team. While, travelling on the bus they find out that they're going to be late and so they decide (by a vote off) to take a detour and get themselves stranded after damaging the bus on the beaten track. Unknowingly to them someone is watching them and waiting for their chance to pounce.<br /><br />Okay, so after reading and hearing how BAD this flick is. I was reasonably surprised by it. I was expecting an atrocity, but what I got here was nothing more than a rancid slasher vehicle that has more in common with the 80s slasher gruel. That's not to say I didn't find it insipid, but by its reputation I expected far worst, but its just another routine (that I found curiously fascinating) sequel trying to cash on the original with a few amusing sequences. What made the original a successful package, just didn't translate here. It's not as brutal, aggressive and intense, while the adrenaline levels are very meek and it lacks that rough edge. Everything about it is uninspired, but there are a few random moments and ridiculous situations. Like oh it's pointless flashback time! Poor Bobby poor Ruby and even the superstar of a dog Beast chimes in. Why? Well, to remind just how better the original is compared with this junk. It's simply a retread of the original with the family being replaced by retarded teens and to up the suspense, one of them just happens to be blind.<br /><br />Wes Craven wrote and directed this lumbering mess and you could easily tell the creative juices were at an all time low. The most effective scenes occur when it has the blind girl unknowingly stumbling across her dead friends. Some of the cast decided to hang around for the sequel. The favourite of the cannibal clan, Pluto (who healed up very well) played by Michael Berryman adds a lot the flick. Janus Blythe who was Ruby returns to take on her dwindling family and for a couple minutes at the beginning Robert Houston reprises his role as Bobby. Oh and not forgetting Beast! The rest of the pesky cast were either annoying fools or simply plain meat for the chopping board. On the other hand, Tamara Stafford was acceptable. John Bloom is an eccentric comic brute (no, goose) in the part of Papa Jupiter's older brother, The Reaper. While, Craven's mind numbing material (especially the script) and direction left a lot to be desired. There was effective location photography put to good use by capturing the impressively foreboding backdrop. Everything else is so-so or below par like the music score, uneven pacing, cut-away deaths with big casualty list, goofy stunt work (where the cannibals seem to lay the smack down) and a dead-weight story with full of "come again moments?" and a very merry conclusion.<br /><br />A terribly soulless low-grade sequel by Craven that I found oddly amusing.