I understand that Wes Craven needed money desperately in order to eat warm food, but he went too far. "The Hills Have Eyes Part II" is probably the worst sequel to any Horror movie. Yes, I even prefer "Exorcist II: The Heretic" to this crap.<br /><br />The movie starts the same as "Texas Chainsaw Massacre II" with a prologue that tells what happened in the previous movie and reminds us that "the hills still have eyes". After the prologue, Bobby has flashbacks from the first movie; now, this scenes have background music. His psychologist tells him that everything's okay and blah, blah. He is now in a biker gang (for sporting motives). But he decides not to enter a competition or something like that in the same hills where his family met cruel fates. So his friends return to the hills, in company of Beauty! who may be now 30 years old. Beauty has also flashbacks! and still remembers how she almost kills Pluto. Wow, this is something new... a dog with flashbacks. But wait, the movie continues with extreme cheese! The plot even gets stupid. How could Bobby fell in love with the cannibal girl from the original? She was way hot back in 77 I must say in his defense. Anyways, the gang returns to the hills (duh) and one by one these kids are killed by Pluto (still as ugly as in the original, or even uglier!), Lizzard, and company. Let me say that the death scenes are cheesy as you can get. Not even like in "Friday the 13th". One of the boys is smashed by a giant rock in a super cheesy scene. The rest of the death scenes involve stabbing and stuff.<br /><br />How could I help this movie? There's no possible way. I can't recommend it because it's at the bottom of the worst. The fact that it uses music from "Friday the 13th part 2" makes it even more a slasher movie than exploitation. Yes, this sequel is a 100% slasher flick. It has terrible acting, horrible gore, stupid dialogs, scenes, etc. There isn't something good about it. Some camera angles even copy "Friday the 13th part 2." For example, when Lizzard is holding a machete but you can only watch his boots. The ending of the movie is really bad. The gang got dumber and slower with time, and they couldn't even escape from the burning place... <br /><br />Now, this is one of the worst slashers ever. I'm not exaggerating. This is a pathetic "Friday the 13th" rip-off but with characters from the original "Hills Have Eyes" (the same plot, characters, gore, music, acting, even cinematography!). Shame on you Mr. Craven. You've done enough harm to the genre.