I couldn't believe my eyes when I saw The Hills Have Eyes Part II at Blockbuster, I didn't even know that Wes had created a sequel from his brilliant classic. My boyfriend and I didn't even hesitate to pick it up, we thought it was going to be another awesome fright fest of the blood thirsty cannibals with probably better effects since Wes had pretty much made good money at that point and also established himself as a great film maker at that point. So we watched it last night with the lights off and you know what happened after the movie was over? We just looked at each other with the most blank stare as if we just saw a car accident. The Hills Have Eyes Part II was just a poorly made film and Wes should be ashamed of himself for ever thinking that this would have been a good movie. The characters were just ridicules and not to mention that he brought back characters that either died in the first film or would have no purpose in this sequel. Not to mention the characters from the first film have flashbacks from the first Hills have Eyes movie, but also the dog has a flashback as well! This story was just a bomb.<br /><br />We have a group of teenage friends on a bus just going across the country, one of the girls happens to be Ruby, the little cannibal girl from the first film that saved the baby, somehow she's established herself into a model citizen that has a bubble gum personality, until she bumps into her old relatives at the same site with the group. That's right, they're all at the same site and now they are invited to dinner, where I'm sure they'll be the guests of honor.<br /><br />The Hills Have Eyes Part II was really pathetic and low, not to mention beyond unbelievable. They didn't explain some of the deaths, they never explained what happened to the rest of the family from the first film, we only see the brother, and he has a pointless role because you don't see him for the rest of the film. Also of course some how the blind girl manages to save the day... I just, I can't, I'm sorry, I just really hated this film. I can't believe Wes did this to his own classic tale, just please do yourself a favor, stay as far away from this film as you can, it's no wonder I didn't hear of it, probably people don't wanna think that it ever happened.<br /><br />1/10