The Milan fashion world is rocked by a serial killer, wearing leather gear and motorcycle helmet, stab-killing those involved with Albatross studio..it coincides with the unfortunate accidental death of a model receiving an illegal abortion. Carlo Bianchi(Nino Castelnuovo)is a very successful photographer enjoying the sexual kicks you receive from being a big-shot in the industry. He literally beds one gal he suckers into a sauna not but shortly after meeting her, promising of a healthy career as a model(..naked nearly the entire film, Femi Benussi shows she's unafraid to bare it all for the audience for almost her total screen time), but she'll, like others, gets stabbed multiple times after discovering the water faucets running in her employer-to-be Gisella Montani's(Amanda)abode. The constant with all these killings revolve around Gisella..her heavy impotent husband(Franco Diogene), her homo-sexual photographer Mario(Claudio Pellegrini), and eventually herself are targets for the mysterious homicidal maniac. Gisella is also being black-mailed by someone in her inner circle(..of the remaining still alive). Others will follow as Magda Cortis(Edwige Fenech, whose character is an apprentice to Carlo)and Carlo become civilian detectives with their own lives endangered in the process.<br /><br />As mentioned in practically every user comment, "Strip Nude for Your Killer" lives up to it's lurid title. Ample nudity from uninhibited actresses, the lives of those associated with the fashion world(..particularly those who will do anything to gain success and fame)are skewered and every character in the film embellishes in sex and hedonism. Fenech delivers the usual tasty nudity and looks fantastic even with a short hair cut. Her lover Carlo is the complete anti-hero, he treats Magda like a sex toy, even choking her not once but twice. He was one of those who left the dead model's body left in a tub with running water(..the image of this dead model is displayed quickly before every murder scene takes place with the director letting the viewer know that this is the motivation behind the stabbings). The stabbings themselves are often gushing wounds, but the final attacks show the aftermath of a castration and breast removal, pretty potent, shocking stuff. There's even some sad humor portraying Gisele's portly husband(..who is quite a danger driving on the roads of Milan with director Bianchi's camera following with a POV shot of the car passing through endless traffic, red lights, and even threatening civilians walking on the streets)as a clown in heat who can not deliver in the clutch. Nice job by Blue Underground bringing giallo fans a print of true quality and the film looks great..with good use of color and sound photography, Bianchi really provides the film with style. Yet, this isn't particularly any different than the endless chain of gialli circling the market, so to combat this Bianchi put naked flesh across the screen almost through the film's entirety. This giallo does have your typical wacky twist revealing why this killer is so viciously killing his/her victims, but this time, the revelation might be underwhelming considering it's a person who isn't as significantly drawn as other characters in the plot. This is indeed a true treat for those with an appreciation for smut. Film suffers for not having a likable character to root for, but Fenech once again portrays the endangered character in pursuit(..and being pursued)of the killer.