Raven(Darlena Tejeiro) & Ashley(Andrea Bogart)just stopped into a bar after hiking a nearby mountain and run into a nasty group of bikers led by TJ(Thomas Crnkovich who overplays the raspy voice and just doesn't provide much menace as the head biker of a band of motorcycle baddies). Stealing one of the gang's motorcycles, Raven and Ashley get run off the road and have to walk on foot after evading the bikers trying to catch them. They found a money bag containing stolen loot which belongs to the sheriff(the corrupt sheriff who gets a cut of a stolen 300 thousand lifted from a location not specified). At a decrepit flea-bag inn, they catch a few zzzz's before TJ and his gang run up on the owner of the establishment, Ned(Joe Goodrich)and his employee, Doug(Stephen Ferguson). TJ wants his loot and Ned decides the money should line his pockets so a shoot-out presumes. What none of the characters know is that an escaped loony, nicknamed the "Axeman"(Tim Sitarz)is on the rampage chopping anyone to pieces he comes in contact with. You have the owner of a bar, Robert(Jason London)who also conspired with Ned for the money. Everyone, including the heroines, want that damn money which results in nearly an entire cast wasted until a few survivors remain.<br /><br />Ivan, The Axeman is a ridiculous unstoppable killing machine who is stabbed numerous times, shot in the back numerous times, pinned to a stone wall by a truck going really fast, & even falls off a mountain..yet, he still keeps coming! London is dreadful as Robert, the turncoat who seems friendly and courteous but is anything but. In a minor sub-plot, we follow the sheriff(Nathan Anderson;the one looking for the loot that is supposed to be his share)and Ivan's psychologist, Margaret(Fiona Loewi)as they are trying to find Ivan. Bogart is smokin' as Ashley, wearing barely little(exposing her incredibly sculpted figure)and Tejeiro as the main heroine Raven is quite cut as well. They are VERY easy on the eyes and might provide enough motivation to waste your time. No-budget stinker with poorly staged axe-murders. Most hilarious scene..Raven and Ashley, driving a station wagon, can not outrun Ivan who is chasing them on a four-wheeler!