In the original novel, Miss Marple is justly outraged by the wickedness of this murderer. For nothing but monetary gain, he murdered his wife (who refused him a divorce) in order to marry a woman for her inheritance. Along the way, he murdered two of his "beloved" fiancée's brothers in order to increase her share of the inheritance. At the end of the novel, Miss Marple declares, while "looking as fierce as an old lady can" that if anyone should hang, it is he! And in fact, to persons of normal morality, he does deserve to hang, since he murdered three people for nothing but money.<br /><br />In this disgusting new film adaptation, Miss Marple has an entirely new attitude toward this murderer's deeds. She smiles sweetly at the murderer's would-be fiancée and consoles her with the comforting words, "He did it for love, dear." No outrage about three murders for gain. After all, "he did it for love." To hell with the fact that he murdered two of his "beloved fiancée's" brothers, not to mention his own wife. Miss Marple's thought's now run to "love" and how "love" somehow makes multiple murders less wrong. And it was never "love," either. It was just money.<br /><br />In another film disaster in this series, Murder at the Vicarage, Miss Marple has all the sympathy in the world for an adulterous woman who murdered her husband because she craved a more interesting sex life. After all, women who are married to boring, obnoxious men are fully justified in murdering them, aren't they? Just ask Miss Marple, in this new Geraldine Something-or Other version. After all, Miss Marple herself had an adulterous relationship back during World War One, (didn't know that, did you?) so adultery is, like, cool. So the murderess in Murder at the Vicarage deserves our sympathies, according to Miss Marple.<br /><br />I hate this new series starring Geraldine Someone-or-other. It stinks, not only because the characters are not what Christie intended them to be, but because the ugly morality of movie makers is substituted for the morality of Agatha Christie.