Television has spoiled me in the last few weeks...I saw the unbelievable Warm Springs, the very well done Mork and Mindy story, and Rosie O'Donell's heartwarming Riding The Bus. For every great Gem is a great big lump of poo and here it is...Locusts!! First this has been done numerous times before and I don't just mean the premise...the actual Locusts thing and it's just dumb. They had to have known that?? Director David Jackson has done enough decent Television to know a stinker doesn't he? Locusts is the "story" of a scientist who was secretly developing an unkillable swarm of locusts in his lab...don't ask why...we'll never know. When his boss Maddy Rierdon discovers this she insists that the Locusts be destroyed but unfortunately a few of them escape and due to their massive re population powers they intensify to a deadly swarm that will within days eviscerate the entire crops of the United States...and then I assume settle in Hawaii for a vacation...sorry....Now Maddy together with her estranged boyfriend, and the scientist who created them must figure out a way to stop these locusts or save the countries crops from their destruction.<br /><br />The story is just so incredibly plot holed it's disgusting. The team moves around the country effortlessly from one end to the other in seemingly minutes. There is a pointless love story entwined in the middle of this, and it seemed like the writer got to a point in the story where they said...good enough I give up...electrocute them all and let's move on the a new project. It's not only the writers fault, the cast is god awful. John Heard who I really respect as an actor plays the completely shallow and empty character of the creator of the bugs. He shows no emotion or depth but then no one does. Star of the film...what a claim to fame...Lucy Lawless, looks great, finally out of the whole Xena thing. But she does an equally crappy job. They are all vapid and unemotional and BORING!! The locusts are also BORING...although I have to give slight kudos to the fact that it doesn't look like a big swarm of computer animated bugs flying around. But you don't ever get that creepy crawly feeling a bug movie should give you. The film has one or two spots of slight excitement before dive bombing into B-Movie crap. Avoid this one like a plague of locusts. 4/10