Since adding the Encore Western Channel to my cable TV lineup I've been overdosing on that particular genre, so I thought I'd take a break to check out a four disc, twenty movie DVD package I picked up from Mill Creek Entertainment. It's called 'Cult Classics', and the title that immediately called out to me was "Terror Of Tiny Town". Wouldn't you know it, the darn thing turned out to be a midget Western. No, not a short feature, but a movie with an all midget cast! It came out the same year as another novelty Western featuring an all Black cast called "Two Gun Man From Harlem".<br /><br />The principle is pretty much the same here. Take your standard 'B' oater, pit your white hat hero against a dastardly villain, and populate it with nothing but midget actors. What's sort of cool in the story is the early misdirection which seems to implicate Tex Preston (Billy Platt) as a cattle rustler before it's revealed there's a third party villain working the Preston's against the Lawson's. Bat Haines (Little Billy Rhodes) is as nasty a villain as you'll find in any John Wayne, Roy Rogers or Durango Kid picture, even to the tune of keeping the local sheriff in his pocket.<br /><br />The hero of the piece, Buck Lawson is played by Billy Curtis in his very first film role. Obviously he caught someone's eye to recommend casting him as the mayor of Munchkin Land in 1939's "Wizard of Oz", from there going on to a rather prodigious movie career. Western fans will note the resemblance between the young Curtis in 'Tiny Town' and the sixty four year old actor who was made mayor of Lago by The Stranger in "High Plains Drifter". To his credit, Curtis did his best to stay away from roles that denigrated little people, and did a creditable job here.<br /><br />Still, it's hard watching the picture not to crack up every now and then over inadvertently funny scenes like the midget cowboys riding on their Shetland ponies, or walking into a saloon under the swinging door. The movie opted to drift back and forth between a normal adult size world and a miniature one to achieve different effects; the scene I thought was exceptional was the one that played out with the runaway stagecoach built to little people scale. Some of the goofier scenes involved pint size singers whose voices were obviously dubbed.<br /><br />"The Terror of Tiny Town" won't make anyone's best films list, but you know, it really shouldn't be on anyone's worst list either. Take it with a grain of salt and you'll probably be entertained. A couple questions need answering though. Why was that penguin in the middle of the movie? And if a regular cowboy fires a six-shooter, does a midget use a three-shooter?