This is a thoughtful adventure that I found to be part sci-fi, part thriller, part love story and an unusually riveting filmgoing experience. Unsurprisingly, it has few well-developed characters; but uncharacteristically for the genre, almost all the piece's characters, however brief their appearance may be, become memorable. There is a special effects disaster in the film, a rousing car chase and many other interesting technical achievements; but I suggest that in this unusual achievement, these adult devices help to move the story along rather than detracting from it as is more usual. "Deja Vu" I find to be unusual in its structure also. Boy Loses Girl, Boy Pursues Girl is not the typical scenario for many films--least of all for a sci-fi narrative; but that's what one encounters here. The fun in the film is I suggest mostly provided by just how the boy loses the girl and exactly how he pursues her to the end of this one. Tony Scott directed this action masterwork for producer Jerry Bruckheimer, from a script by Bill Marsilli and co-producer Terry Rossio. Production Designer Chris Seagers makes use of understated but consistent lighting of and New Orleans streets and backgrounds just enough to give the real flavor of the Crescent City, which I have visited and experienced more than once. Paul Cameron's cinematography, the controlled art direction supplied by Drew Boughton, and the award level and very complex set decoration by Rosemary Brandenburg all in my opinion add greatly to the film's unusual believability. The makeup task was enormous in this movie; and the costumes well-handled; but these elements mostly provide a background to the main storyline's progress. Among the exceedingly large cast, standouts include Val Kilmer, James Caviezel as a terrorist, and a number of good actors in small roles as FBI and ATF officials. It is difficult to do justice to the pace, intelligence and gradual unfolding of so interesting a story. Most reviewers cannot understand sci-fi, especially time-travel stories. So, the success of this modest but "A" production effort is worth noting as a milestone in cinematic history. Add in a strong folksy performance by Denzel Washington as the lead agent and attractive Paula Patton as his love interest; throw in good or better music by Harry Gregson- Williams, and you have a first-rate film that deserves even more attention that its many nominations would attest. Very highly recommended.