Though moderately entertaining, there are too many things you have to overlook to make it one cohesive movie. So let's begin. <br /><br />Let's first overlook the fact that the movie butchers physics- you would think they'd at least bring someone on staff that knows SOMETHING about wormholes etc. to at least attempt to ground this movie in science. They didn't. Since it's a fictional movie- this is forgivable - we'll overlook that it (producing wormholes) can't possibly happen and the science behind it is laughable. Secondly, they never really explain why there are two of him - is this some sort "The Prestige" rip-off? My thought is if you send someone into the past - that's changing the past and there is only one of the person- you're not cloning someone - they use all this fake science mumbo-jumbo to make you try to answer your own question or just ignore the fact there's two of him. Give me a concrete answer on why there's two of him (and how he makes it back to the future when it hasn't worked before--why this time? because it's Denzel?) It also seems they kind of just ignore the fact he most probably killed his partner, probably 40-50 people on the highway by driving recklessly(if not killed, paralyzed) to save the girl that he had a crush on (real romantic). Let's also overlook all the scenes where they spied on the girl in the shower and changing - because they should be arrested for that considering that's pretty illegal and inappropriate. I'm going to start rambling so bear with me- she pulls a gun on him- and he makes a joke that he didn't know that was going to happen - but he really should have, they pass it off as a joke because they can't explain that scene. The ending where they drive the truck off of the boat - in a stroke of divine intervention- they crash through all the immobile cars -with the distance they had - maximum they could be going 15 MPH - yet they plow through and manage to not only drive the truck OFF the ship, but get it way up in the air to flip around. That's impressive! My last huge qualm about the movie is- when he heads towards the bayou at the end, he's in SUCH a hurry - yet - at the girl's house they spend so much time bandaging him and are in no hurry. That scene would lack ANY suspense if they hurried up at her house and didn't park right out front of the Bayou.<br /><br />In my opinion, this movie would have been better served having Denzel die - the girl get sucked into the ships propeller (to have her fingers cut off) and wash up on the ocean shore to show that you can't mess around with the past or to elaborate more on the 'human sacrifice' line of the movie.