I was eagerly awaiting the release of this movie only to be dropped flat. Excellent actors, lousy parts. I didn't get attached to anyone in the movie, except for George Clooney's son, who was more of a plot device prop, than a character. There are extra, pretty useless characters, like the drunk brother that waste the viewers time and don't really pay off in the end. The same set up could have existed without the extra family. I'll allow one coincidence to every screenwriter, but this movie is chock full of them. Clooney just happens to have a brother on the police force. He just happens to run into the lunatic lawyer who's hiding from everybody. He just happens to pull over to look at horses when his car blows up. And so on. We have to see this stupid scene not once, but twice. Why does he stop to look at the horses for crying out loud? The first time I see it I think surely its a set up that will pay off later. But no. Not to mention, the writer would have been wise to sit up for an all night marathon of CSI to think we would buy that his throwing a watch, wallet and cell phone in a burning car would equate to somebody thinking he was dead. Hello? the most basic forensically challenged would realize these items would burn up. Yet the absences of a corpse, well, that wouldn't throw anyone off. And the killing of the lunatic lawyer, well, gee, an "apparent suicide" for overdose would include an examination of his stomach contents, which, surprise, would not have included all those pills since his killers injected him with the drugs that kill him. Somewhere in all the hacked, arty story telling there was a half way decent plot that got wasted on this dreary, boring, annoying product. I was so far ahead of everyone in it, I wanted to just stand up and announce what was going to happen so we could all go home. Everybody in the theater groaned at the end. Maybe a few simple people that are in love with George Clooney will enjoy it, but I'd rather watch repeated reruns of ER.