Laurel and Hardy star as boarders in the Little Old Woman's shoe home in Toyland. Her daughter, Bo Peep, is pretty, sweet, angelic and very virginal--which is exactly why the evil Barnaby wants to force her to marry him. So it's up to Stan and Ollie to save the day.<br /><br />For some odd reason, this Laurel and Hardy movie has been elevated to classic status. I have no idea why, as it's a rather bland and stupid kids movie that completely wastes the team's talents. Heck, even most of their 1940s feature-length films are better than this! The only interesting elements are the beautiful sets and unusual costumes as well as the part where Stan marries Barnaby (who says the idea of Gay marriage is new!). Since this movie was first made, it's been remade several times--and each time it is a total bore. Even as a child, I hated this movie (especially with all its god-awful music) and wanted the REAL Laurel and Hardy instead! <br /><br />During the 1930s, Hal Roach Studios (affiliated with MGM) periodically put the team in some really weird movies and this one may not be the weirdest one (that honor goes to either BABES IN TOYLAND of FRA DIAVOLO--an OPERETTA with Laurel and Hardy comedy segments!)--but it certainly is one of the worst full-length film they made--and this includes most of their rather lame 1940s and 1950 film (the only ones that are worse than BABES are THE BIG NOISE and UTOPIA). I guess I can understand trying something new (since Laurel and Hardy made 15 billion movies and shorts) but the results were often sub-par and they were usually much better in shorts. If you do want to see one of their GOOD full-length films, try to watch Sons of the Desert, Bonny Scotland or Our Relations--not this overly saccharine and limp mess.<br /><br />By the way, early in the film, there's a 1930s style Mickey Mouse in Toyland. Inside is apparently a monkey. Both the Mickey and song "Who's Afraid of the Big Bad Wolf" were from Disney and RKO--apparently MGM Studios purchased rights or Disney (for once) wasn't in a litigious mood. Also, get a load of the Bogeymen. They look a lot like the dancing savages from the Marlene Dietrich film BLONDE VENUS!!