When I read all the other comments on "Babes in Toyland" I was surprised to notice that all of 'em were written in a most positive way. "Babes in Toyland" seems to be an extremely sweet, charming, beautiful, and absolutely endearing film - movie that everybody loves! The only bad thing people could find was the fact that some sick idiot had the nerve to colorize it! I wouldn't like to be a kill-joy but I have to give my personal opinion - totally different point of view. I hated this sugary crap.<br /><br />Now you must think of me as a guy who simply don't like Laurel & Hardy and old comedies generally. I'm a big fan of Laurel & Hardy and that's the main reason why I think this irritating film sucked. Would somebody tell me one thing about the good-old days? Why did they had to spoil so many of the comedy classics with way too many annoying musical numbers? Let's take Marx brothers movies for example. There were four blokes: Groucho, Harpo, Chico and Zeppo - one hilarious comic genius after another. And when I try to watch their movies and enjoy their brilliant anarchistic comedy I get stupid, irrelevant songs that interrupt my enjoyment at regular intervals.<br /><br />"Babes in Toyland" made me feel disappointed and angry. I wanted to see as much of Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy fooling around as possible. My wishes didn't came true. Laurel & Hardy, the two reasons why I wanted to watch this movie in the first place were buried under the amazingly childish story, bunch of foolish characters like Little Bo-Peep and Barnaby and a huge bunch of maddening songs. If you want to see truly an old feel-good movie for the holidays - one that's actually good - try Frank Capra's breathtaking classic "It's a wonderful life" and forget this one.<br /><br />I say this once again: I have absolutely nothing against Laurel & Hardy, on the contrary: I love the two wacky blokes. I just can't stand this mushy movie. If "Babes in Toyland" really makes you feel happy, good for you. Then by all means watch the damn flick! If you have seen it as a child I can understand why you may still like it as an adult. If I have to see this treacly, sickly-sweet trash once again I get an overdose of sugar and need to vomit. If you wish to watch a superb Laurel & Hardy -flick check out "Sons of the desert" (1933) or especially "Our relations" (1936) and get ready for ceaseless laughter.