If you watch a lot of movies, you see mostly bad ones. That's the realization I have come to at least. If you give your brain a little bit of credit I would say you would be lucky to enjoy 6 out of 10 movies that come out. I know that going into the experience by now. A lot of movies are just bad and that's okay, but some of them are bad AND they insult my intelligence. This is where I get angry and frustrated at Hollywood.<br /><br />Before this movie was made I can just picture a bunch of Hollywood executives sitting around a long, oval-shaped table saying "Hey, everyone liked those 'Saw' movies so let's whip up something similar, and as quickly as possible regardless of quality!" I mean seriously the lack of plot in this movie is uncanny. The first 45 minutes or so is totally pointless and is more akin to the movie Eurotrip than anything that would be considered scary (there's about 10-15 boob shots for every interesting part in this movie, if that). Then when the movie gets to the subject matter that was advertised, we're subjected to a few "gross you out just because" parts. When the only surviving main character predictably escapes he coincidentally bumps into everyone involved in the setup so we can all feel better now that the good guys have been somewhat redeemed.<br /><br />It's one thing for a movie to simply be bad. Everyone has their opinion. But when a movie with no plot is injected with a few gross-out scenes just to make it more like a successful movie of its kind it gets to the point of the viewer being insulted. Every event has to MEAN something to the plot but when you don't have a plot that creates a problem. In this movie you have characters running around Europe trying to get laid for half the movie and then the rest of it is a shameless imitation of 'Saw' but without any resemblance of a storyline. Do NOT go see this movie, unless you are the type that sees a couple gory scenes and comes out of the movie saying "That was so cool!" If you are, god bless you, but I like my movies to have a point.