(May Contain SPoilers) Okay, this is what I knew from interviews with cast & crew. They were going to show the origins of 'how' Jason started using the hockey mask. Uhm, excuse me, but did they NOT see Part III which CLEARLY shows how and why he started using the hockey mask? Apparently, not but they were still hired to make the movie. We were promised the 'origins' of Jason and all we got was a half-attempted beginning that really didn't explain much at all. For a newcomer to the Friday The 13th lore, a newcomer wouldn't have known what that was even about in this so-called 're-imagining'. This is cemented when the campfire Jason story is interrupted thus a newcomer still wouldn't know anything about the origins of Jason. Yet they were still hired to make this movie. They were hired, in part, by Producer Michael Bay who walked out during the first screening saying there was 'too much sex'... LOL! Of course there was. This IS Friday The 13th for camper's sake! I'm betting he didn't read the script. Shoot, I know he didn't because he would've seen then there was, in his words, too much sex. But he didn't know until the film was made and he was watching it for the first time? Gimme a break! He just heard the name brand and put his money up without even reading a script and that's his own stupidity, imho. The editing was beyond bad. The actors were all very capable here. When Jared P. & Danielle P. got on that motorcycle to go to the other side of the lake, I was thinking "man I hope they're gonna ride onto another movie set and skip this one!".. But, of course they didn't. But overall, if this were the first Ft13 that someone ever saw, then this 're-imagining' has left them confused as to what Jason's mother actually did and why Jason does. Jason, here, on the other hand was the one redeeming character in this mess. He was relentless, to say the least and had the script been better and done with more suspenseful editing, Jason would've been a force to be reckoned (sic) with! But he didn't have much to work with. As for that hockey mask. He found it in a barn. Wow! That mystery has finally been solved (sarcasm alert)! How was that any better than when he found the mask in Part 3? It wasn't. Then in another barn, there was even more hockey equipment. Now where do you suppose all these 'hockey playing pot farmers' actually play hockey at? I thought it would be near impossible to make a bad Ft13, but all involved here have achieved that and then some. It had to be harder for them to do this bad, so maybe they should get some kudos...lol And the one thing that really ticked me off: Where was the obligatory VW Beetle? It's been in all the Fthe13th's and they missed an opportunity to use the NEW VW. Shame...lol This was Part 12, not a re-imagining unless they have no imagination. :) Also, why does the music sound more like the 'Terminator score' than Harry Mancinis' original score. And Jason does NOT take hostages. He just doesn't. And the hostage here ('Whitney') has been tied up for 6 weeks inside Jason's cabin. Yet, her very clean shirt is still nicely tucked in and her finger nails nicely manicured. She had also obviously been eating good. What did she eat? Human flesh? And how did she maintain that 'kick-your-ass' spirit for 6 strait weeks without freaking out. Maybe it was all those manicures that calmed her? I think there were just too many cooks in the kitchen on this one. And by calling it just 'Friday The 13th' they've screwed themselves on being able to call the next one, the 13th one, which could've been called 'Friday THE 13th' but now that's shot down. And we still don't know anything about Mr. Voorhees! They could've at least had him in an asylum, having his way with that nun, Miss Krueger ;P (i'm only half-serious on that last statement) And instead of showing us AGAIN where the hockey mask came from, they could've used that time to show us who taught Jason how to drive in Ft13th Part 2 ;P Just saying...lol Peace