I've never been compelled to write a review of a film, but after watching 108 minutes of people saying "ummm" I feel I have no other choice. Seriously, someone should count how many times "Umm" is regurgitated throughout this piece of work. One of the most infuriating aspects about reading reviews of this film is the constant reference to Cassavetes. Give me a break. Is it because it's black and white film and hand held? Or is it because the actors improvised their lines? Does that make something in the vein of Cassavetes? Please, it's insulting to John Cassavetes as an artist. <br /><br />The main difference between this film and any John Cassavetes film is that Cassavetes made intense, compelling films with STELLAR performances. Not to mention, his actors had SCREEN PRESENCE; it wasn't just a bunch of bumbling noncommittal "twenty somethings" sitting around talking about the most mundane minutia, like whether or not their backpack has one strap or two. That's not even realistic, no one talks like that. And if you were around someone who did talk like that you'd get bored and leave the conversation. It's like being stuck at the worst party imaginable without a ride home. <br /><br />I love improvisation, don't get me wrong, but improvised dialog isn't inherently interesting just because it's improvised. Cassavetes improvised in rehearsals and would write down what worked and formed it into a script, yes a SCRIPT, something Andrew Bujalski should experiment with. Having someone else edit his films may not be a bad idea either. <br /><br />I appreciate the fact that the filmmaker made a film, but give me a break... groundbreaking this is not. It's not even honest to the milieu it is posing to represent. 20 something hipsters are assholes: they fight, they screw, they argue, they have conflict. The fact that the main "rock star" character doesn't even have sex with the leading woman is just dishonest, boring and, to me, shows that the filmmaker has either never been laid or doesn't know any actual musicians. <br /><br />108 minutes dedicated to the idea that two people were "thinking" about sharing a kiss it just a waste of time to everyone involved, me especially. Maybe would have worked as a short; emphasis on short. Mumble core is not only the most ill named film-making movement, it's just plain ill conceived and poorly executed. On a positive note, it gives hope to every half-wit film student who lacks the ability to be rigorous and self-critical. Ummm... well, ummm, like, ummmm...thanks Andrew.