I'm a GIANT fan of the original story by Clive Barker and I think the first two Hellraisers were the greatest horror films ever to be produced. But, ever since Hellraiser 3, untalented directors wear out the name and use the villain-icon Pinhead as a marketing instrument to tell lame and inferior horror stories. Hellseeker ranks as the sixth episode in the series and it is - along with Inferno - the weakest effort so far. The original charm has faded away completely and the tone and atmosphere doesn't come near the morbid and raw originals. The story of Hellseeker has got nothing to do anymore with the original characters Clive Barker created and they might as well could have given this movie a completely new surrounding. Heroine Ashley Laurence is dragged into this film for no particular reason. She doesn't show any resemblance with her original character and even Pinhead himself has gone through a complete metamorphosis. He once was a true symbol of all that represents evil but, after 6 episodes, he merely looks like a lame philosopher who prefers to plea instead of to kill. Hellraiser:Hellseeker is an extremely boring experience with only a few remarkable scenes. And those particular scenes are in fact just a shadow of the ones in the original Hellraisers. It's nothing more than a mediocre attempt to build up a mystery tale. The first hour of this film is a series of hallucinations and illogical dream-sequences. Director Rick Bota constantly tries to fool the audience with plot-twists but, actually, the audience doesn't give a damn! The last 15 minutes of Hellseeker are the only ones worth seeing. Both Kirsty's and Pinhead's screen time are entirely in those minutes and it's the only time the script actually makes a bit sense. If you manage yourself to struggle through the first hour, you'll see a more or less satisfying ending. If the rumors are true, there will be two more sequels coming out in 2004 . Knowing myself a bit, I'll most likely see them...but my expectations have never before been so low!