I'm a big fan of the following Adult Swim shows. First it was SGCTC, than the Brak Show, than AQHF, than Harvey Birdman, now its reruns of Stoker and Hooch, Metalpocalypse, Venture Brothers, Robot Chicken, in other words, I'm a regular viewer to Adult Swim (it's the only TV I watch regularly). Moral Orel is a one trick pony that South Park has done to death, make fun of Christianity. Not only that but it parodies a really good show for kids, Davey and Goliath, and thats it's whole thing. No creativity involved here, just lampoon a wholesome show that you knew as a kid and insult it in any way you can over the course of several seasons. What makes me like the other shows I mentioned is that they seem to make fun of everyone 9well not really I'm being generous), Moral Orel only makes fun of Christianity. Am I a bible thumper?, hardly. But I do see the hypocrisy of a so called "tolerant" segment of America, the left, and their unbridled hatred of anything that Christianity means. Also, isn't Cartoon Network getting old with all these baby boomer bashing shows? Hey, I laughed at the Simpsons, then South Park, and now these other shows which Adult Swim has done, but the bashing is wearing thin. Time for new ideas Cartoon Network. I can't believe there are enough people that get off watching a parody of a show the audience probably has never heard off or seen because it's no longer on the air because it's "too" wholesome. This show ranks at the bottom of Adult Swims talent along with 12 oz mouse, Tom meets the mayor and a few others I can't remember. Surprise me Adult Swim and come up with a show about whining city dwelling metro-sexual men and their bisexual dominating female friends. Oh yeah , that probably wouldn't be funny because they don't have any redeeming value to demean. Hey, heres a funny show idea, since there have been Christian bashing shows on the air since SNL started in the 70's and its been 30 years now, why not bash Muslim's? Why don't they? Because Ted Turner and his cronies are liberal wimps.