There's been a lot of yada yada yada about the "Seinfeld" curse, so-called, because none of the cast of that beloved show have found successful vehicles since it ended. There are reasons for this. The most obvious is that much of what they've produced has just been crap. Look at Jason Alexander. Aside from the wonderful "Duckman" cartoon, his two live action series, "Bob Patterson" and the recently canceled "Listen Up" (which was unwatchable, formula treacle), were both ratings duds. This is a guy who, on Broadway, was practically George M. Cohan! Same with Michael Richards (Kramer). His lone attempt at solo fame ("The Michael Richards Show") was mystifyingly terrible. It seems that all of the "Seinfeld" cast have made bad career moves since the show ended. At least, Julia Louis-Dreyfus has tried to be conscientious. She's been in some duds, sure, but her previous attempt, "Watching Ellie", was a good show, that just needed a little retooling. The cast was sharp, it was well-written and she was bubbly and easy to watch. The major problem it had, was that it felt like some of the later Laurel and Hardy movies, the plotting was a little trite. I understand she had a lot invested in that program, her husband wrote it, they both produced it. So when the nincompoops at NBC decided they weren't going to give it a fair shot, it must have been a bitter pill to swallow. She's been on hiatus for a few years; I suppose, just to let the smoke clear. Now, she's back with "The New Adventures Of Old Christine", and believe me, this one is complete junk. For starters, she looks terrible; wan and sickly, with circles under her eyes and primarily, she plays a punching bag. If Elaine Benis was rife with insecurities, Christine's insecurities are eating her alive. Here's the premise: her husband (a lackluster milquetoast of a man) and her were having marital difficulties, so they went to a therapist, who, we find out, episodes in, is a nasty incompetent who was having sex with the guy. Like everything on this program, the shrink is a broadly drawn cartoon. If this woman were your marriage counselor, you'd be looking for a new one mid-way through your first 45 minutes. But, okay. So, when the series begins, Christine's spouse has already walked out on her, for a younger, NICER woman, who is also named Christine; hence, NEW Christine. Brutal. She's moved into a not so great apartment, has trouble making ends meet, nobody likes her... . I mean, how do the producers think that anybody who's EVER lived through a divorce (what- 75% of the USA now?)could find humor in this? Mostly, Old Christine doesn't even have suitable responses to the group of sharks around her. The supporting cast either doesn't care, doesn't have any use for her or they simply want her gone. None of this is even mildly amusing, let alone witty but worst of all, there's simply nobody to root for. Hamish Linklater, as her odd, clueless, immature brother, is the closest thing here to funny, but his part is written in such a peculiar way, that I wouldn't be surprised if, in a future episode, we all find out he's a serial killer. Her ex-husband is a shadow, her young son is one of these kids who was hired on cute quotient, not ability. The 3 rich, snobby mothers at her son's school are beyond contempt, but compared to Dreyfus' mewling, neurotic, battered, apologetic Christine, I almost feel sorry for them; at least they can stand on their own two feet. This is a show about how a decent woman who's made some mistakes, gets smacked down by life at every conceivable turn. It's painful to watch and it needs to go. As for that "Seinfeld" curse, I'm beginning to think it's on us.