Really, I thought that I had seen it all when I saw movies like "Freddy Got Fingered", "The Nutty Professor 2" and all those teenage comedies full of toilet humor and humor about other bodily functions. But nothing could prepare me for what I was going to see in this movie. Boundaries are to be broken, but sometimes it can go too far, even for me. And how do you know when it is all getting too much for the normal, even liberal, thinking person? Well, when you go to the cinema, find 2/3 of the seats empty and, before the movie is half, see more than half of the viewers leave the room before the movie has ended...<br /><br />Talking about the story will not take very long, because there just isn't much of a story to be found in this movie. In an ordinary conservative town, the sex-addicts are taking over and Sylvia Stickles, a grumpy, repressed middle-aged woman who hates sex, doesn't like it a bit. She already has problems enough with keeping her husband away from her and keeping her daughter Caprice locked in her room. Caprice is an exhibitionist go-go dancer who goes by the name Ursula Udders and who is very popular by bikers. But when Sylvia is hit on the head during an accident and suffers from a concussion, she all a sudden turns into a sex-addict herself. The sexy tow-truck driver Ray-Ray Perkins rushes to her aid and Sylvia soon realizes that he is no ordinary service man, but a sexual healer...<br /><br />If you are already offended by a naked breast in a movie, than you certainly shouldn't watch this one, because it will probably give you a heart attack from the first minutes on. This movie has only one theme and that is sex, sex and some more sex. Sex with all its variations and weird fascinations and incredibly weird characters. Or would you call a girl that goes by the name Ursula Udders and who has bigger breasts than you will ever have seen in your life, normal? She makes Lolo Ferrari look like a chest-less young girl (for those who are interested, Ferrari was an 'actress' who was only (in)famous for her really gigantic breasts). The same for other characters like Fat F*ck Frank, Papa and Mama Bear (fat and hairy gay men), a policeman who likes to behave like a baby, someone who has a dirt fetish,... you really can't think of anything that isn't in the movie...<br /><br />Of course I already had an idea of what to expect. When you know that Johnny Knoxville plays an 'important' role in this movie, you just know that you can't expect much quality. But the quality of this movie was even lower than I could ever expect. In my opinion there is only one good thing about it: it kicks so incredibly hard against the shins of conservative America that I doubt they will ever be able to walk again. I'm not saying that I liked the movie, but it was all too obvious that this movie was made to shock the puritans and I don't think they could have done a 'better' job than with this movie. That's also the only reason why I don't give this movie a 1/10 but a 4/10.