Loving "Ginger Snaps", a film which if you're like me felt left too many unanswered questions, coming into "Ginger Snaps 2" I was eager to see not only how they answered the unanswered questions, but seeing if they could keep the name Ginger Snaps still alive. Well I suppose they did but only in spirit, but it could have been worse. If you're reading this I'm assuming you've seen "Ginger Snaps 1" if not, goodbye thanks for reading. Anyways, I loved how the film was pretty much all about Bridgette, not that hated Ginger it's just I really didn't want to deal with one of the problems with Ginger Snaps 1 again which was the constant deal of: I'm okay, no I'm a wolf, No I'm okay, I hate you, now I don't, Now I do! You know, it gets old fast, so therefore having a on woman show with Bridgette I liked. Overall Ginger Snaps 2 isn't exactly a bad sequel, it's just an attempt that was just a little too safe. Ginger Snaps took a risk, after just recovering from the Columbine Massacre and other uproars in teen violence, Ginger Snaps 1 could have been more appropriate, but they weren't and it worked. Here with Ginger Snaps 2 there is no risk visible, and in the end this is probably how Ginger Snap 1 would have been if it had been safe. Sure I'll admit a sequel to a cult classics like Ginger Snaps is a challenge enough, but as a sequel I think it should want to be better, but here it feels more like they don't want to offend anybody (being the fans) so they play it safe. I loved how for the beginning they truly focus on the aftermath of part 1 (which is the funnest part of sequels, just getting to say "Hey I was there I saw that with you!" is fun), because it's fun to continue with the story from part 1. However as it descends from that it just becomes boring, and just like any other face in the crowd, and doesn't really have anything newer or anything to make it stand out like Ginger Snaps did. Perhaps the main thing is how they make certain characters bigger characters than they truly need to be. Ghost being the biggest example, she was annoying, to desperate, and honestly needed to die. Pretty much after Bridgette and Ghost escape the hospital is where it gets bad. All in all it's not exactly a bad movie it's just it's nothing special, even if it weren't a preceded sequel to Ginger Snaps, and like I said it's very safe. Besides even still as a sequel there are still too many unanswered questions, and don't even get me started on that ending. If you're a fan of Ginger Snaps, I'd see this one only too say you saw it.