Batman (Christopher Stapleton) is in the midst of a massive clean-up of Gotham's underground drug circuit when an encounter with a thief (Trip Hope) leads Batman into the fight of his life The only good aspects of this film are that the direction is good, the film looks pretty good, and the basic underlying ideas are unique. I mean, superheroes aren't perfect; they make mistakes too. What would happen if a superhero made a mistake and ruined someone's life? What if that person was in a situation where he or she could try to get revenge? Is vigilante justice justified? Do people have the right to take the law into their own hands? Unfortunately, these ideas are lost and muddled, because the film keeps switching teams; one minute it's about vigilantes being wrong, then the next minute they say the hero is needed; then the villain gets all of the sympathy, making you want to hate Batman, and then when it ends, they want you to sympathize with Batman. If that's not bad enough, the dialogue is clunky, and the lead actor (Trip Hope) couldn't carry a school play. Also, a lot of the torture scenes don't feel like they have any intelligence or thought behind them; they were just put there for shock-value, and it ends up being more of a disgusting, juvenile filmmaker effort than the thoughtful, disturbing film that it needed to be.<br /><br />And what the filmmaker does to Batman is unforgivable. It's obvious the filmmaker either A) Doesn't understand Batman, B) Doesn't Like Batman, or C) Wanted to make a mockery of Batman. Either way, he succeeds on all three levels. As a result, we get a pathetic, weak Batman who goes against everything that nearly 70 years of history has taught us about him. This Batman is not the selfless, stoic, heroic crime-fighter who fights crime to avenge the deaths of his parents; This Batman is a selfish, cocky, weak brat who takes pleasure in fighting crime and has no will power to fight back. To take a page from the American Godzilla movie, this is B.I.N.O (Batman In Name Only) All in all, this movie is arguably the worst on-screen interpretation of Batman EVER. Yes, even worse than BATMAN & ROBIN. And it's a shame too, because there's a lot of great ideas in this movie and, as the title suggests, this film could've been really interesting. But in the end, with a muddled screenplay, poor actors, and B.I.N.O, we get a film...oh heck, it ain't even worth being called a film. Please, if you have any sense at all, go check out BATMAN '89, BATMAN DEAD END, or BATMAN BEGINS for true, respectful portrayals of Batman