They were really funny separately. Chevy Chase kicked off his movie run in partnership with Goldie Hawn in Foul Play which couldn't have been better. Aykroyd was sensational in Trading Places with Eddie Murphy (another SNL alumnus) but this is too much of a good thing. It's not really their fault because they actually work well as a team but the director, John Landis felt that it was more interesting to dwell on the rather tired plot about the possibility of nuclear holocaust which is played out too long at the end of this otherwise amusing comedy. Cold war movies had it's heyday in the 50's but in a comedy that's supposed to be an homage to the "Road" movies. Bob Hope makes a cameo spoofing one of his images but it's only good for a mild chuckle.<br /><br />Since 1976 where Chevy Chase broke off his association with SNL there have been many SNL'ers who have tried the same as he did. Bill Murray was one of the most successful although many of his movies have been downright disasters (Eg. The man who knew too little). Where Murray had charisma to burn, Chase comes off very dour and too much of a smart aleck to gain much sympathy for his character, which essentially is the same one in all his movies. Aykroyd can be simply gut-wrenching as he was in Dragnet, but here he is just used as a foil for Chase and not a comic one.<br /><br />To play the sexy object of Chase's affection Aykroyd used his own wife which is kind of masochistic when Aykroyd's character shows no interest in her at all. She's extremely good-looking but that's about it. She was used to better effect in Wayne's World and there her part was much, much smaller. Her partner and she pass themselves off as doctors and the actor who plays him has apparently been in a lot of Python movies and we even get Terry Gilliam as another doctor. These cameos are Landis' favorite thing and he includes them in nearly all of his movies but they are not really there for a reason.<br /><br />So what we are left with is many cheap jokes about camels, since Chase and Aykroyd are dropped in the Middle East, we get lot of innuendos from Chase when trying to bag Aykroyd's wife and finally we get lots and lots of images of rockets in space. Are you bored yet?