The Maury Show is the most awful show on TV to watch. A talk show is about engaging topics that plaque the world today, like the war in Iraq or the lack of employment, right? Well, The Maury Show isn't about any of those things. The Maury Show consists of women trying to find their baby's daddy, women or men sleeping around, caught on tape, people that just survived, or people that scared of the silliest and stupidest things like mustard or balloons. The Maury Show comes on at 4pm time and again at 4am. Of course, at 4pm and 4am is when there isn't nothing worth watching on TV. But half of The Maury Show consists of women trying to find their baby daddy. "I am 1000 percent sure, Maury, that DaShawn is my baby's daddy! He was the only person that I slept with! (usually, start with the bawling like babies or getting angry.). Whoopidity freaking do, who cares? Then the guy explains his side of the story about Dalesha being such a slut and sleeping around with the whole NBA. Then the woman would tell Maury, "Bring him out!" He comes out and the audience would boo or catcalls him, Maury doesn't let the guy fully explain his story because of the audience which consists of nothing but lazy, good-for-nothing imbeciles that should be at work, not on talk shows feeling sorry for people that air their dirty laundry on national TV.<br /><br />After a while, the DNA test comes up. If Dashawn isn't the baby's daddy, Dalesha runs backstage crying like a baby. And the men usually jump up and down like a bunch of fools. We all know the woman fool around with another man, and the man that they're giving the DNA test to, isn't probably the baby's father since DNA tests don't lie. It doesn't take intellects to figure that one out. Then, there are women that have been on the show for five or six times, trying to find their baby's daddy. Or the guy that slept around with 25 women, his wife cheated on him once, he suddenly "quits" cheating and decided to stay with his wife. What a stupid, stupid talk show. Ah! Then there are one show which have out of control teen girls trying to get pregnant, or fail a lie detector test to end up figuring out that they're complete liars or sluts. This show consists of inconsiderable and unintelligent imbeciles, sluts, and goons that love "talking it up" and air their dirty laundry to millions of people that probably could care. I know that I don't care when somebody tried to find their baby's daddy, or the guy turns out NOT to be the baby's daddy. I really, really don't care and they shouldn't went on TV to air their dirty laundry in the first place. I feel like my IQ is draining from watching the Maury Show, that's why I stopped watching Maury last year. If I turn on Maury now, it's the same old topics over and over again. Week 1: "I can't find my baby daddy!" Two, three, or even ten days later, the same old topic pursues under a different name! Turn on PBS, Judge Judy, cartoons, Discovery, History, or anything better than this show. Unless you will be watching an otherwise, intelligent better TV program than Maury.