Primeval, by all means, isn't a terrible movie to the point where it is unwatchable and receiving so many negative reviews. It actually starts off quite well and shows promise, but when the movie more-or-less forgets about one of it's main stars - The Crocodile - it slips into a boring movie about a group of people being attacked by angry African soldiers rather than being a movie about a group of people being killed off by a big nasty croc. The movie is meant to be about a news team, including Dominic Purcell, Brooke Langton and Orlando Jones out to catch a giant croc by the name of "Gustav" that has tormenting local villagers and killing. However, the movie soon turns into a movie about, well lets just say, a lot of angry men in the African jungle firing bullets at the news team and killing them - with a crocodile thrown in the middle of it. That is what I feel the main problem is the movie - The Croc just seems to randomly pop up in the middle of a shootout and take out some of the characters. It's like a boring, slow movie "action" movie in Africa...then a crocodile just pops up occasionally and brutally kills off someone and gets in the middle of it. It's a shame, as the croc in the movie seems like a nasty, big croc - but it's wasted and gets less screen time than you would think. This made the movie boring and dull, and not what I was expecting - after all it is supposed to be about a crocodile. The acting, on the other hand, is actually good - but the characters aren't. The characters are completely boring and the only character who I'd say is likable in the movie is Orlando Jones' character as he provides a quick couple of laughs. Every other character is just dull and unlikeable, but like I said - the actors do well with what they are given. The movie isn't all bad though, the crocodile is quite nasty when it pops up, there are one or two nice, brutal kills, some laughs and good CGI for the crock - as well as like I said before, good acting and a good cast. But the movie is just ultimately boring and slow, and while it's not the worst of some of the crocodile flicks I've seen (*cough* Crocodile), it's not the best and it is far from the best - but actually not as bad as people are saying to the extent of getting so many 1 votes. It deserves a 4/10 from me and no more, no less. Wait for late night TV or pick it up when it's a bargain...but either buy some alcohol with it or watch it really late...cause it is one boring flick and you'll probably fall asleep due to it's slowness. Not recommended, and disappointing.<br /><br />4/10