I was a die hard fan of Dragon Ball and Dragon Ball Z. I loved Goku and his friends. The hype online for this show made it sound pretty cool. Super Sayian 4 looked amazing. I couldn't wait. Then the show hit and all the great things that the first two held was gone. So many mistakes happened. 1. It seems like the creators just ripped off Dragon Ball and Dragon Ball Z and combining the campy fun of Dragon Ball, and the action of Dragon Ball Z. What do you get? Crap. Each show was special for being different. GT brings nothing special of it's own to the table because honestly, there is no story left, just some people who want money. 2. Why is Goku a kid? I loved Goku as a kid back in the day but that was then, this is now. I want the adult Goku. I really can't take little Goku seriously. I mean I understand that's how they figured they could bring back Goku's tail which meant he could go Super Sayian and be monkey, which turned him Super Sayian 4 but then why doesn't he return a kid at Super Sayian 4? 3. The villains in this are horrible. Baby looks like a combination of Buu and Cell. Can't anyone make a new villain??? Super 17???? Android 17 could very well be my least favorite villain in DBZ next to Garlic Jr.(I did like him a little cause it was Gohan, Krillen and Piccolo that fought him and not Goku) The Dragons could have been cool but just were another version of Buu. 4. Our old friends were worthless. Goku and Vegeta are the only heroes in this entire show. In Dragon Ball Z, the others (Gohan, Krillen, Piccolo, etc.) hung around and fought the villain to make time for Goku to arrive. Now they sadly, have been overlooked. Most are old or just gave up fighting. Gohan once had some spotlight but now is nothing but an idiot. Goten I had such high hopes for. While Gohan had always been pretty weak in DBZ, Goten could have been greater then Goku but of course, Goku can never be beaten. One of my biggest problems is Trunks. I remember future Trunks from DBZ and the later kid Trunks and they were awesome. This Trunks is stupid. He's about as intimidating as a paper bag. Pan is beyond annoying too. Pan could have been the female hero of the show which would have given the show a female audience. Instead she's weak and annoying. She can't even go Super Sayian.<br /><br />Sadly the only good part this show is the end which was sad cause it was the end to one of my favorite series. GT was horrible. I think me and my friends could have done a better job. Too bad......it could have been great.