I happened to tune into this one just as it was beginning, mainly because the log line seemed interesting. The opening scene seemed interesting enough with the obviously processed shot of the inferno in the arctic, but as opening credits started to roll I found myself wanting to watch this movie as an example of how not to make a movie. As a filmmaker, I find watching bad stuff like this to be a learning experience of what not to do in a movie.<br /><br />I found it amazing that a movie like this can be made. It had relatively good production value, considering the bad script, which is why I was confused as to how this movie got made. The writing is not layered with well-developed characters; instead, it is layered with one cliché after another. There is no truth to any of the acting or the characters at all, and it seems like no research was done in order to make this a more believable story, or at least to suspend disbelief, which would have helped make more believable characters. The acting was so mechanical and cliché.<br /><br />The director is obviously to blame for the bad performances, but I have to admit that the bad script would have made it hard for any director to do a good job on this one. The actors need to take some responsibility as well. I can't imagine any self-respecting talent not weighing in on how to make this story better, but then how could anyone have saved this cinematic disaster. It was so poorly written that the only way this movie could have been made worth watching is to simply rewrite it - completely. It should have never been made. This is not art. It's not even commercial. It seemed like the movie was made for its own sake, and the money spent on this one was spent for the sake of producers wanting to simply make a movie. I don't know – maybe write it off, or to take advantage of some tax break. It's hard to imagine anyone buying or renting a DVD of this, much less HBO picking it up. I guess the producers are making money on this one, since it did air on HBO. Unbelievable!!!