HAHAHAHAHAHHA...and so forth. That is the primary reaction watching this spoof of a movie that wasn't intended to spoof anything at all. The biggest challenge in this film isn't finding beaver to trap and sell, it's watching the first forty five minutes without busting your guts all over the floor laughing! This movie was not intended to be comedical, (I don't think...) however, it proves to be funnier than any actual comedy.<br /><br /> Ok ok enough of the silliness, I will now try and explain and summarize this hahahaha movhahahie. The film starts out with Mr. Bill Tyler (Charlton Heston) meeting up with old friend Henry Frapp (Brian Keith) by way of Frapp knocking Tyler down into the water along with his horses...HAHAHAHA...oh ok sorry I lost it for a second there. They are both men of the mountain or "Mountain Men" trapping and selling their Ploos of Beaver to the highest bidder for cash money!!!! Obscenities fly through the air almost as much as random bodies and there is even a brief appearance by george of the jungle himself Brendan Frasier as the evil Indian. You need to see this guy he looks JUST like Brendan Frasier. The movie is filled to the max with memorable one liners, characters, and donkeys running off in random directions for NO REASON WHATSOEVER!!! HAHAHAHA!!! One theory about that part that I have is that there wasn't enough money to re-shoot the scene, the donkey wasn't supposed to run away but the budget was too tight to stop production so they captured it and worked it in thinking people would be all captivated!! It hooked me I'll tell you that much!! There are many memorable things that happen in this movie that I really can't give away. But please watch this movie, and when I say watch I really mean purchase and I'll give you two reasons. One, this movie is too funny to just rent, you will want to relive the experience over and over with all your friends and that will cost you a fortune. Two, I'm sure the creators of this movie aren't really pullin in too much moola for this heavyweight box office smash, help them pay rent, buy this flick.<br /><br />