Far Cry is one of the most overrated games in 2004. Some people say that this game is the best FPS game after legendary Half Life from 1998. I disagree. Far Cry is just an average FPS game with boring story, stereotypical characters and annoying game play.<br /><br />Now, the game really looks fantastic. Most of the game takes place on tropical islands in South Pacific and the islands are just beautiful to watch, the sea, waterfalls and jungles look really good and breathtaking, but good graphics doesn't bring good game. <br /><br />The story is boring and typical even for the worst FPS games: we have one guy with a lot of guns against the army of bad guys and (of course) genetic mutants. Most of the time you are just walking from one island to another, shooting and killing everyone you meet without having a clue what's going on. The enemies are ten times stronger than you, they can see you from a mile away, hear one little sound and they put the entire place on full alert, knowing exactly where you are, I even heard that they can see you threw the walls and rocks which is really stupid and unrealistic. There is no strategy while approaching to the enemy, all the time you are just shooting at them. And sometimes you'll have to shoot at them in different directions, because they can attack you from the air, water and jungle at the same time. The game become very boring after a few hours, because it's all the same; you come to the island, start shooting at the enemy, enter a base or laboratory, shoot new bunch of enemies, push the button or something like that and in the end shoot some more enemies. Maybe it's fun and challenging game for young players, but for me (I like the games with story and challenge, not "shoot to kill" games) it was just a waste of time. There are some cool things in the game, you can switch walking on foot and driving with jeeps, boats,... but that's not enough for a good game.<br /><br />Far Cry is overall an average FPS game with bad story and terrible voice acting, annoying game play and after a few hours it become boring and predictable. Trouble in paradise for teenagers.