Even for a kids' movie, the premise to ED is incredibly lame. So lame that it boggles the mind to imagine that this film was made in the first place. I can only assume that the writers and execs at the studio were under the influence of some mind-altering drug while they were watching a re-run of a "Francis the Mule" film or else had loved ones kidnapped in order to force this film to be made. This is the only way you could understand this film. Even the worst of the most contrived Disney films of the 1960s and 70s look like "Gone With the Wind" compared to this! <br /><br />Matt LeBlanc stars as a guy who has a great pitching arm. However, when his game stinks, the manager punishes him by sending him to pick someone up at the bus stop. That 'someone' turns out to be a baseball playing chimp who is the team's new mascot. When I first saw this chimp, he really looked creepy--and I assume it was just a midget in an ape suit. It looked more realistic than chimps looked in films in 1940, but still looked bizarre and a bit scary! Well, only in a movie would it turn out that the chimp was a fantastic baseball player--with an arm like a rocket AND a thorough knowledge of how to play ball! How all the actors were able to participate in this farce of a film with straight faces is beyond me. Talk about an insane plot! Even small children would find this tough to swallow. However, given that he ultimately is SMARTER than LeBlanc isn't quite as hard to believe (at least in light of his role on "Friends").<br /><br />Some of the low-points in this dreadful film include frequent fart jokes, snot jokes, Ed and LeBlanc both peeing together at the same toilet, belching, Ed driving a truck at what appears to be 400 mph, more fart jokes and Ed plying dress-up with grandma's clothes. At no point in the film is it clever or does it poke fun of itself (the only way this MIGHT have worked).<br /><br />Overall, a sorry mess of a film that is so inexplicably dumb that I can't believe it was made in the first place. Practically every cliché known to baseball is in this film and its only entertainment value is for people who want to laugh at the sheer inanity of the movie. Clearly, this film has earned its place on IMDb's Bottom 100 list!