A stake-out drug sting operation is thwarted when the cops are interrupted by undead zombie bums whose condition derived from fallen meteorites carrying a type of infection. Two different gangs, a Latino group led by the unscrupulous thug, Caesar(Noel Gugliemi)and a black group led by tough-talking Mac T(Ethan Ednee)are meeting their drug supplier, Mitchell(Reggie Bannister, in a glorified cameo)whose home is within a massive warehouse. One among this group is a narc for the DEA, led by Campbell(James C Burns)and partner O'Bannon(Stephen Basilone)who bust in unannounced, causing quite the awkward situation as zombies run amok outside eating cops or anyone with the misfortune of being in the general area. Weatherman(Cazimir Milostan)is a television personality whose wife is pulled from his convertible by the zombie bums as he looks on in horror, abandoning his vehicle, intruding upon Mitch's warehouse as well, put to good use by Caesar when attempting, unsuccessfully, to retrieve his vehicle. Trying to ban everyone together, Campbell faces a tough task as these groups hate one another but must put aside their differences because of the greater threat. Soon, however, Caesar takes advantage(when Campbell saves him from being swarmed by zombies, risking his own life in the process)of an opportunity presented to him, and takes control of the group using his hand gun as a tool to do so. His tyranny will only last so long because his brother, Spider(Danny Martinez), has been bitten and is slowly succumbing to the zombie plague sweeping across the city. Despite being bound to a chair, developing circumstances will lead to his release causing an escalating series of events which will leave few people standing. <br /><br />As expected, the Latino and ghetto stereotypes are present as is their colorful language and dangerous attitude. The film maintains a relatively volatile atmosphere as Caesar is your usual bullying antagonist, pointing his gun in people's faces, ordering them around to do his bidding. You know that with him in charge, the situation will only get worse because if the group doesn't work as a cohesive unit, tempers will flare and violence is certain to occur. Weatherman is the rich suburbanite who weakens psychologically, downing discovered booze, his behavior a mix of fear, paranoia and sadness. The zombies themselves have your typical facial discolor and drooling mouths, rampaging on fresh victims en mass. Rarely do you see visible flesh-ripping or cannibalism because the zombies form in massive packs hovering over their victims as we listen to the screams. The fate of Caesar is certain to earn a round of applause from the audience who watches a film like this..he is quite a despicable low-life who obviously gets his jollies from wielding his power with a revolver in his hand as those is fear for their lives do as he says. The most memorable death sequence comes at the end when a face is ripped apart from the mouth. I believe few will care for any of these characters and root for the zombies to tear them limb for limb. Despite the use of firearms and 2X4's, the violence towards the zombies is quite tame..lack of budget, I guess.