The director John Mathew Mathan had gone into oblivion after his directorial debut 'Sarfarosh' that came in 1999. Everybody remembers the film simply because it was a fantastic film. As one watched the socio-political thriller unfold, not even once did the audience remind itself that this was a greenhorn director and perhaps if need be, not to be too harsh on him. So after 5 years when he decided to make Shikhar, it's not an exaggeration to say that the same audience expected the film to be if not more, at-last 5 times more powerful and impact making than Sarfarosh! But to make a film like 'Shikhar', seems nothing but a crude joke on the sensitivities and patience of the people. The memory of Sarfarosh is as fresh in the minds of people as it would have been after ten years, in other words, had Mathan taken even an eternity to bring to his loyal audience a quality film, they would have welcomed it with open arms. But Shikharjust seems like an execution in Mathan's worst nightmares! There is nothing redeemable about the film, except Shahid Kapoor who has a reflection of youthful Shahrukh Khan when it comes to projecting honesty, passion and dedication. So when you take portions of 'Swades', 'Bas Itna Sa Khwab Hai' and possibly scrapes of 'Guide' or 'Raju Ban Gaya Gentleman' and churn them together, you would have manufactured Shikhar! Not produced, created or even re-created, purely manufactured! The film has not even an iota of pseudo-realism in its theme, plot, characterization and is exceedingly synthetic. The music is uninspiring, dialogues are sloppy and even the premise of the film seems insincere. Story: Shikhar revolves around the issue related to builders, landlords and their tenants who are being pressurized under the superior people of society. How far can greed take a man? Ajay Devgan portrays the character of 'Gaurav Gupta' (GG), who is highly ambitious builder (not to mention-dresses like an MTV star) who wants Guruji (Jawed Sheikh) to evacuate Rishivan-the orphanage to build a magna city called Golden Gate. This shall have multiplexes, golf course, housing, amusement park etc. Guruji actually is an industrial magnate and believes that wealth means nothing if not utilized for the betterment of the society. He wants his wealth to be utilized for the upliftment for the tribal in the area. In the tug-of-war between GG and Guruji, Jaidev Vardhan (Shahid kapur) a fresh graduate and the only son of Guruji, falls in the trap designed by GG and his girlfriend Natasha (Bipasha Basu). Madhavi (Amrita Rao), who genuinely loves Jaidev observes her love being carried away by the world of wealth, wine and women. Will GG succeed in his vicious plans? Will Jaidev discover the fiend behind the mask of friendship GG wears? Wait for the DVD release to find out, this one is definitely not for tarrying away your time at a theater.