Kenneth Branagh's poor attempt at making a film of Mary Shelley's 19th century novel 'Frankenstein' fails to give across the message that Shelley's world famous creation manages to do. The adaptation mostly follows the line of the book with the enthusiastic Professor Frankenstein who is determined to create life after his mother dies giving birth his younger brother. Despite the fact the film is based on the book it lacks the ability to "truly curdle the blood".<br /><br />Isn't the film supposed to be a horror? Although the makeup done by Daniel Parker, Paul Engelen and Carol Hemming was pretty frightening, the film never really gave me that spine-shiver that is expected from a horror. It lacks that sense of darkness and suspense. When expecting an ending that was similar to the book's, it is very surprising to find that Branagh has changed it. The gory scene of the monster ripping Elizabeth's heart out is then followed by a laughable failure of the zombie-like Elizabeth running through the house in flames. Despite the effect's this is unrealistic and whole house is a blaze in less then a minute! There are many great actors in the film such as the multi-talented Kenneth Branagh who both directs and stars in the film, Robert De-Niro who plays the distraught creature, Tom Hulce who plays Henry Clerval (Frankenstein's closest friend) and Helena Bonham Carter who plays Elizabeth, but this still doesn't bring the film to life. Branagh's attempt of the science-obsessed professor Victor Frankenstein is first seen in the cold blizzards of the Arctic wearing a frosted fur coat. He is taken aboard by Captain Robert Walton (Aidan Quinn) and begins to narrate his life, first as a youngster and then how he came to make his hideous creation. His Frankenstein is dramatic and over-acted but doesn't bring out the enthusiasm of Victor Frankenstein described in the novel. Hugely contrasted to Branagh's attempt of Frankenstein is Robert De Niro's superb performance of the creature. His performance conveys the feelings that the creature is described to have such as hate for Victor Frankenstein and lots of sadness. The way he portrays the creature really allows the audience to feel sympathy for Frankenstein's creation.<br /><br />The music seems to play throughout the whole film and is as annoying as Kenneth Branagh's loud and over the top acting. Patrick Doyle's music doesn't give the film any suspense, instead it leaves the audience trying to concentrate on the rest of the adaptation. Also it is hard trying to concentrate when the film is constantly switching from scene to scene, and it's jumpy camera is making you dizzy.<br /><br />The book's sophisticated language appears very simplified as many of the words and some of the language from the book is not used, but this allows the audience to understand more of the story. However maybe if Branagh had tried less to change it and had used more of the original dialogue and narrative, the film could be more interesting and therefore hold the interest of the viewing audience longer.<br /><br />In the scene after Frankenstein (Kenneth Branagh) has brought the creature to life. Frankenstein is lying in his bed, he awakes from a bad dream and the monster appears in a flash of lighting. Everybody knows this cliché from any traditional horror movie! Branagh should have paid more attention to the detail in the book and possibly produced a film much more true to it's title and not the farce that was created.<br /><br />Despite the fact that there are many unimpressive sections of the film there is undoubtedly some parts which will entertain the audience, such as the making of the monster. When Frankenstein is stitching and bringing the monster together there is a sense of realism and anticipation. This bit was enjoyable but unfortunately this short interlude of excitement lasted no more then 5 minutes and soon returned to it's dull but laughable self.