some people are amazed by this movie, even chilled, but i thought it was a complete waste of my time. the entire first two acts of the film are great, setting up a tense situation where the viewer is intently waiting to see the dramatic climax. and then the whole thing goes to hell! my only qualm is that the ending is entirely unbelievable. no one, NO ONE, would volunteer for this uncertain fate. i can't believe that this man, the protagonist, would be so distraught that he'd volunteer to suffer the same fate as his mysteriously absent girlfriend. she was obviously dead; she never tried to make contact with her old life. so, either he is the world's laziest suicide, unable to commit the act himself, or he's an idiot. as i watched the movie, when the protagonist is presented with the choice of finding out what happened to Saskia by undergoing the exact same treatment, i almost turned the movie off. all i could think was that there was a third choice: beat the kidnapper into a pulp, take his ass back to your apartment, and torture the information out of him. not agree to die at the hands of the same bastard who killed your girl. hey, maybe i'm just too American to appreciate the emotional damage motivating this man's inexhaustible search, but all i know is that, given the same situation, my own need to know could be instantly replaced by an undying homicidal urge that i would gladly focus on the kidnapper who created this void in my life. i certainly wouldn't sign up to be buried alive. and just why does this budding killer bury people in the first place? he goes through all that preparation so he can just bury his victims? wouldn't he rather see their anguish? i just think all these characters are flat, thoughtless interpretations of how real people would conduct themselves in similar situation with similar motivations. i think this movie was written by a monkey with no human insight and the idea that people are genuinely frightened by this schlock causes me to doubt moviegoers more than i already do. personally, i think the deranged neighbor kid from Toy Story is more psychologically thrilling than this foreign rag.