I watched this film because I am, at times, a film masochist. While I love classic Hollywood films, independent films and foreign cinema, I also have a soft place in my heart for the truly horrible films. I particularly love the worst schlock from the 1950s and 60s. And, considering that Larry Buchanan is one of the absolute worst directors of this era, GOODBYE, NORMA JEAN was a must-see.<br /><br />The first thing I noticed is that the film maker really intended this as a "skin flick" by inserting needless nudity. Facts and getting the story straight were NOT high priorities. I especially like how they didn't even try to make Misty Rowe look that much like Marilyn. Before being discovered by Hollywood, Marilyn didn't have bleached blonde hair, as anyone vaguely acquainted with Marilyn's life would have known--but I guess wigs or hair dye were just too expensive for this film! The next thing I noticed is that this really wasn't a biography but instead was more like a series of sexually explicit episodes (a lotta rapes in particular) and beatings that were linked together by the theme of Marilyn Monroe--like it was inspired by her life only! In other words, it was pure exploitation. Instead of being titillating, however, it all came off as gross. Sure, Ms. Rowe was a sexy dish, but seeing her supposedly raped again and again is definitely NOT a turn-on for normal folks!! In fact, I sure worry about anyone who LIKES watching these terrible scenes. I really think if they had perhaps kept the nudity but not have it be in the forms of violent rapes it wouldn't offend most viewers.<br /><br />Another really bad aspect of the film is the dialog. Again and again, Ms. Rowe goes off on the most ridiculous little speeches that don't sound the least bit like the way real people talk. In particular, the casting couch speech was laughable but examples of insipid drivel for dialog abound. Another great bit of dialog is the scene where Marilyn's mother appears in a dream wearing a straight-jacket and talks on and on about how hard life is! Ugghh! <br /><br />Overall, there isn't really anything good about the film, though the production values are a lot better than Larry Buchanan's other films--which still isn't saying very much! Also, if you are looking for anything on the later life of Marilyn, this film isn't it as it focuses on the early career only. In 1989, Buchanan created GOODNIGHT, SWEET MARILYN that supposedly deals with Marilyn's last days. If it's as close to the facts as this film, expect to possibly see space aliens and a visit from Pope Innocent III in the movie! GOODBYE, NORMA JEAN is a rather sad and pathetic excuse for a film. The only reason it gets a 2 is that at least for Larry Buchanan it's got reasonably decent production values.<br /><br />Written, directed, produced and edited by the great auteur, it is a soul-less and evil little movie.