I was not familiar with Robert Pastorelli, who died of a drug overdose, shortly after the series ended. I know he starred on "Murphy Brown" and some other television series, but that was it. Looking back at his "Fritz" the character and the actor clicked, for the most part. Granted, some of thedialogue was straight from the U.K. series, but Pastorelli did some nice personal touches in the series too: 1.) Compare Robbie Coltrane's (WHO is the definitive Fritz) ability to take down a suicide jumper compared to Robbie P.'s "Some Day A Lemming Will Fly" in both series. The approach is more American with R.P. flapping his arms attempting his own version jump believing the suspect will save him and get them both off the ledge. Robbie C. gives a speech about the title's meaning, but Robbie P. adds a little world weary flair by the flapping. It should be noted that the American Fritz really did hate his life, while the U.K. version's vices (gambling, booze, and adultery) kept him alive. I'll never forget Robbie P.'s line to an arsonist about to blow a house up: "Go ahead. It's been a bad week." 2.) After knowing that he puts an innocent man behind bars in "Lemming", both Fritzs react differently. Coltrane reflects quietly; Pastorelli gets sloshed the day they wanted to have a date. Again, it was Pastorelli's view of Fritz that made that role in the U.S. his. He wasn't just copying Coltrane word-for-word and action-for-action always. 3.) Some dialogue is definitively up-to-that-date American: Robbie P. tells an antecodote that Robert Mitchum lived on juice and alcohol. Just like the U.K. version had its pop references so did this one. 4.)Also of note are the episodes when Pastorelli has a heart attack (or rather his Fritz does), which is not in the U.K. series, the U.S. version of Fritz talking to his dad, and the final episode where Robbie Coltrane stars as a Hollywood star. The point that I am hinting at is that yes, Coltrane, who is a very good actor, fit U.K.'s Fritz like a glove, and yes, I love his Fritz. Pastorelli's Fritz was an American sequel to the series. (Note that the U.K.'s final episode -- not including "Lucky White Ghost" -- was the plot for the first U.S. series.) Pastorelli seemed to draw from the hell he was in shortly before his death to make the character his own. If that ain't Method acting, what is? For even attempting to touch this beloved U.K. character with his own style should give the man some credit in the great beyond. His American Fritz never got fully developed, and that was the truth. Nonetheless, the U.S. series was a very good attempt, and if you can, try to see it as the work of Pastorelli and R. Lee Emery and others instead of a copycat. It deserves better than that label.<br /><br />(Personal note: If responding to this comment, no tabloid crap or jokes about R.P.'s life, okay? Tahnk you.