By the end of this movie, my friend and I had shared a lot of laughs. This is the epitome of a horror movie that is so incredibly ridiculous, that in moments where you should be scared, you find yourself laughing instead of gasping.<br /><br />The storyline was nothing short of horrible. You are suppose to be questioning whether it is Mary or a real killer causing deaths. The answer is obvious, unless there was a character never introduced that could manifest spiders or whom dressed in a gory Mary outfit. Furthermore, Mary is ultimately seeking to be buried and chooses a girl to communicate with. However, instead of communicating in a way conducive to asking for help...Mary randomly manifests as bloody, pissy, and screaming as she flails rotting hands in the poor girl's face. Later on you learn Mary had the ability manifest as her pre-murdered self, and so I questioned why Mary didn't opt for that image for smoother communication. Despite what one would expect to be counterproductive communication, Kate Mara's character remains saner than I think any normal person would...and presses on with the task. (MAJOR SPOILER AHEAD IF YOU CARE) Hell, Kate Mara's character is hardly even phased when a character is revealed to have killed her brother (END). You genuinely have to pay attention to know beforehand who is interested in keeping Mary's killing under wraps. Naturally it is who killed her, but the movie isn't liberal with names and the future adult looks nothing like the younger self.<br /><br />The acting wasn't entirely bad; despite Kate Mara's apathy to a particular death she was as good as expected in a direct to video film. I must say however, that Tina Lifford did bring some genuine effect to film. With the exception of maybe two, the supporting characters were pretty forgettable. The character playing the stupid tanning girl was hard to take...I couldn't decide if the writers were poking fun at incredibly cheesy acting.<br /><br />Ultimately, I was surprised to learn that the director was behind some pretty famous music videos...and although I think she should keep to that genre, the directing I think was alright. Where this movie falls short, is the writing. It is not a good story nor does it have particularly good dialog, and I don't understand how a sane person/studio could decide to buy the script. What would be even more ridiculous is to buy the movie, unless you want to laugh your ass off and feel sorry for spending the money later.<br /><br />Mary's evil is hardly beyond legend...