Mary Banner(Lilith Fields)is a victim of accident when a prank by a certain jock in particular goes awry. Three jocks were to drug three female prom-goers leaving them in the woods as the typical prank. Mary believes that the jock she went to the prom with legitimately liked her, but once she realizes it was merely a set-up with her being a fool of the hoax, running away seems the only viable option. Chasing after her, the jock tries to grab her when Mary bites his hand. Retaliating harshly, the jock punches her with Mary hitting the corner of a table. Seemingly dead, the jock freaks out, placing her body in a locked trunk. Mary isn't dead and as she awakes, there's no escape resulting in suffocation.<br /><br />This urban myth sets up the story that occurs during the remainder of the film..the sons and daughter of those three jocks(and a female who was the girlfriend of the jock who committed the tragic act of putting Mary in the trunk)are killed off one by one in mysterious, icky ways. One is burnt alive in a tanning bed, a girl is attacked by an army of spiders which seem to have made a home underneath her skin inside a bite that protrudes(this is done through CGI, but is particularly skin-crawlingly effective), one's penis is fried on an electric fence, and another is sliced and diced with a broken whiskey bottle by the ghoulish Mary herself(this death is said to have occurred by a falling candy machine..one almost kills him before Mary attacks). There's one victim remaining and that mystery is the ultimate key to why Mary seeks retribution.<br /><br />Samantha Owens(Kate Mara)is "chosen" by Mary(she sees visions Mary "feeds" her)to seek out where her body is. Along with her twin brother David(Robert Vito), they search for reasons and clues regarding why all their friends are dying leading them to Mary's friend from 1969, Grace(Tina Lifford). What they find will lead them to someone they know far too well.<br /><br />Crappy computer effects, rather dull story, and silly supernatural antics undermine an ambitious idea. Bloody Mary rarely gets much horror treatment, although with the right filmmaker it's rife for exploring. This film has a rather weak heroine/protagonist and the film really isn't all that spooky. The film also just looks cheap and slowly paced. It's also derivative taking from other far more creepy ghost revenge stories. Uninspired to boot. The ending when Mary finally meets the one responsible for her suffering is embarrassingly awful.