God. I don't know where to begin with this one. "Urban Legends: Bloody Mary" has to be one of the worst horror movies I have ever seen. Definitely a top 10 contender. Here we have the third instalment of the Urban Legend franchise, this time changing it up (yeah, such a smart idea). Instead of the UL usual stalk and slash story's, this time they're brining a supernatural aspect. To be more specific, Bloody Mary. Thrilled? I think not. When the movie ended, I was kind of lost for words. I was a big fan of the original. With it's smart script, great setting, talented cast and more than enough scares, it was an instant classic. The second addition "Urban Legend: Final Cut" was nowhere near up to the standards of the first, but it was entertaining enough and a decent sequel. This however is catastrophic. This was only made for the sake of having a trilogy.<br /><br />The movie has so many flaws and plot holes, it's just too hard to name them all. I would also suffer a severe head pain actually trying to go through the movie again - it sounds terrifying just thinking about it - but for all the wrong reasons. If I had to pick one thing that stood out the worst, it would have to be the story. Bloody Mary?, come on, give me a break. Seriously. The third Urban Legend should have been a slasher, fright fest. Going back to the true, original style of the first. Though, I know it would have never measured up to it's first, I would have probably respected it a lot more. The story is just lazy. It lacks any real spark. It's like they read one of the most boring takes on the several Bloody Mary stories, and turned it into a film.<br /><br />The second flaw would have to be, yep, you guessed it, the terrific acting. Man was it bad. Every single "actor" was bad. When I say everyone - I mean everyone! Not one of these Z listers has a decent shred of good acting abilities in them. This made the film appear cheap and unprofessional. All I wanna know is, who did the horrific casting job? They should be fired! All in all this film was more than below average. More so in fact that it doesn't even deserve 1 star. It's a terrible piece of film and should be avoided at all costs!