How can you start off a summary about a movie that lacks every single element of entertainment and abandons any structure of coherence? The only positive thing in this horrible film was that there were three pairs of boobies that coincidentally were on the three best actors in the film (!).<br /><br />The film starts out pretty much like the last guy summed it up. A guy (Mark) who looks around 50 is with his girlfriend of roughly one year (Amber), who looks around 20, and his daughter (Emily). Now, in an event to get Emily and Amber to bond, Mark decides that a post-World War III vacation to a cabin in Nowheresville (a.k.a. CANADA) is relevant. During this time (keep in mind, time is a subjective matter in this film, there is no feel for time in this movie. The only real instance we are 'some-what' presented with a feel is when a still shot of the school/warehouse/prison/business building is darkened using Photoshop for night and re-lit for day)a virus has changed FIFTY MILLION PEOPLE WORLDWIDE!! into zombies. This staggering number, of course, has crippled every government military across the globe, leaving marshall law in effect.<br /><br />Conveniently, about this time, Mark's car breaks down and thus the humor ensues. We are introduced to the vague character of Dave, who unfortunately at this time, his kid (who looks roughly the same age as his wife) becomes stricken with Zombieitis, then gives it to his wife, who in turn must be shot by Dave, the only time in the film where Dave's acting is above sub-sub-SUB-par.<br /><br />Dave, assuming the leader role, gathers presumably ten or fifteen guys (the number keeps changing), one of whom is Derek, the REBEL of the group. Derek, constantly giving members of the party the one fingered salute, eventually is kicked out, then returns, then leaves on his own will, returns again, shoots a woman in the stomach so the ridiculously slow and idiotic zombies can feast on her, and is finally strung up to a tree whilst the group takes turns punching him in the balls (while zombies surround them) That's pretty much the basic plot line for this excuse of a movie. Dave is the WORST leader in the modern film era constantly making horrible mistakes as his idiotic sidekicks maintain their loyalty, the black guy forces a quirky British accent, and people must be trained for a shooting 'stance'. Their brilliant barricade is nothing more than a few empty milk cartons that are eventually removed by Derek!!! and his bald friend.<br /><br />This movie sucks. My ears bled as a man stricken with the disease yells "I BEAT CANCER, I CAN BEAT THIS TOO" and people seemed oblivious to the idea of memorizing lines. Four or five times people began stuttering and the director simply allowed, probably assuming that's how people naturally talk.