I am going to give the reader until the end of this short critique to figure out how the bugs were killed. Because with all of these so called scientist, experts working on how to kill them you would think the solution would be harder then taking a trip to your local Home Depot. This movie is so bad it was good. First thing I didn't get the time-line. The man who dastardly invented these mutant bugs seems to also have picked up the use of super warp speed traveling while working in the lab late at night. One minute he is in Virginia and the next minute he is in Pittsburgh. Same goes for the scientist couple. One minute they are living together the next scene they are separated and she is pregnant. And there was no indication that this was 2 months later..it was like the next day. They are married but for some reason they seem to keep their marriage a secret. Why I do not know. They work for two different agencies. Then we have her father thrown into the mix. Who just happens to be a farmer in the Midwest straight in the path of the Bugs. We see Lucy Loveless who plays the lead seemingly drive to Indiana with the redeemed dastardly scientist ( who BTW daughter was attacked by locust and is now in a coma)from the DC area in warp speed time to warn her father who I guess does not have a radio or TV but has have a super sleek cell phone that the bugs are coming straight for him! Meantime we have the real villain..no not the bugs, not the dastardly scientist but a angry 4 star General who seems a little too eager to gas people with the same poison used by Sadaam Hussian (as were are reminded) to kill the bugs. We see a scene with what looked like a herd of sheep but I think it is cattle since we later find out they were eaten by the locust. They are now carnivorous! This is getting better then that classic movie Frogs. Most of the movie is spent watching scenes of locust swarming down on crowds..causing mayhem at a airport but no one is killed by locust eating them. Except one person toward the end after we find out that they like to eat flesh.but no other reports of death by Locust. And he looks like he was attacked by Slugs. The rest of the movie is spent in a battle of the wills between the Maniacal General and the husband and wife scientist trying to find a way to kill the bugs without killing folks. We have the usual war room scenes too. OK OK time is up for the solution. Seems like the good old Bug Zapper was the solution. This they figure out while bugs get zapped while trying to get into a silo! Yes one giant bug zapper. One had to think that during a day in the backyard having a barbecue someone would of noticed what those things hanging up off a tree limb was there for. Considering every time any bug got near it meant certain death. Kind of like seeing this movie.