I only write this review to help all who are confused by what to do with your life. You can do anything you want to... except make trash like this and call it a film. Yes it was recorded on film, but that does not give you the right to claim it is a film project. Sorry if you actors who played in it ever read this, but, it was worse than horrible. This so called "movie" took a story that should have taken 3 minutes to tell, and stretched it out into 1hr and a half off scenes that were way too long. As a matter of fact, it made me wonder if half way through the first scene of this piece of ****, if the editor got sick of watching it and quit his job. There is a rule about no spoilers in these comments.... something would have had to happen in the "movie" for me to spoil. In fact... the only thing that was spoiled was the food in my stomach. It literally made me sick watching this. I am not exaggerating!!! When it finally ended, I thought I was going to have to take a knife and stab myself in the stomach to make the pain stop. I was filled with disgust and hated the human race for allowing this to even be seen by human eyes. It was pure torture. The only reason to watch it is to see how bad it really is. There were only two good things about this movie.... 1) it shows real film makers what not to do ever... and 2) it ended. I read a comment earlier about this movie being great because it was realistic and did not make up some crazy fantastical ending. First of all, no one has a life that is this boring and pointless. If you do... watch this movie so you can slice your wrist open with butter knife. You will wish you have not had to watch the "movie" to do it. Sorry people. This movie had absolutely no artistic merit. Do not mistake this for a "movie". It is a time machine that will fast forward you to the point in your life where you will want to die for making the mistake of watching it. Even after you have read all of this... if you have not seen it.... the curiosity will get the better of some of you... and you will watch it to see how bad it really is. To those of you who watch it after this.... you might want to prepare yourself ahead of time. Get a puke bucket, and the sharpest butter knife in the kitchen. Thanx for letting me rant and rave. Don't watch it. It will save your life. Now thats a review. Whew!!!