First off, to answer L. Lion's comment, yes they do have actual cheerleader camps and, believe it or not, the mascots DO actually accompany the team. Now, as for the movie, this was a surprisingly good slasher film, especially seeing as it came out in the late 80's when they were all becoming parodies of themselves. Just watch "Friday the 13th Part 6: Jason Lives" for proof of that. It also stars many noticeable by face but not by name actors/actresses, such as Lorie Griffin, whose character would make it seem that she actually accomplished boning her brains out in "Teen Wolf", and now can't tell sarcasm or an insult if you slap her in the face with it. Apparently werewolf spooge causes brain cancer. Anyways, add a Phoebe Cates and Tobin Bell-less Betsy Russell whose character has seizures (probably from starring in "Tomboy"), Leif Garrett trying to relive his glory days by trying screw every girl in sight. He doesn't sing, but raps.... yeah, I'll leave that at that. Throw in 2 playboy playmates (only 1 of which shows her "qualifications" for that position), an annoying fat guy who was adopted in real life by the camp handyman Buck Flower (probably the only reason 1 or the other is even in this film), a silent but creepy cook, an over eccentric counselor, a horny cop, and the film's choreographer (who plays the mascot of all characters), and you have a decent last gasp for breath in the by then dying slasher genre. The acting is rather good for a film of its type, the deaths rather gory for an R-rated film, and enough T&A to keep the peanut gallery interested. The ending has a good twist that will surprise most viewers, but die hard film fans like myself will probably guess the killer's identity 1/4 the way into the movie (once you know it, is becomes rather obvious). The killers motivation is a good twist though. I recommend it. Only thing I still don't get from this film: How the Hell does the hottest member of the team get placed as the mascot? Yeah, you fight for the right to keep your alligator head off honey. Make the fat guy wear it. Or Leif Garrett. Maybe he'll find his career in there....