This is a pretty good sequel for the most part that's quite entertaining, with fantastic performances, however it comes nowhere close to matching the original. All the characters are pretty cool, and the story was solid, plus Emily Perkins is simply amazing in this!. I was really disappointed that Katharine Isabelle was so wasted in this as she only has a few lines, and I thought Tatiana Maslany was brilliant as the psycho Ghost as she was really creepy and unpredictable, plus it had quite a few tense scenes. while it is good it just didn't have the magic the 1st did, and while the ending is really quite surprising, I never did care too much for it,plus Emily is able to match her amazing performance in the 1st!. It's decently made and written, and it also leaves open the possibility of another sequel which I would love to see, however like the 1st the Werewolf effects Wern't that great. There is a freaky masturbation scene, and I love the setting in the creepy hospital, plus all the characters were quite likable. This is a pretty good sequel for the most part that's quite entertaining with fantastic performances, however it comes nowhere near close to matching the original in my opinion, still I highly recommend it. The Direction is quite good!. Brett Sullivan does quite a good job here with effective camera work, solid angles, using a creepy setting, adding creepy atmosphere some good POV shots, and lots of other cool shots as well, plus he kept the film at a fast pace for the most part.<br /><br />There is a bit of blood and gore. We get bloody self mutilation, bloody werewolf attacks, glimpses of pretty gory corpses, skin cut off of someone's ear, nasty transformation scenes, hammer in the head (at least I think it was), quite a bit of blood, and other minor stuff.<br /><br />The Acting is fantastic!. Emily Perkins is amazing as always and is amazing here, she is extremely likable, tough but vulnerable, had pretty good chemistry with Tatiana Maslany, is incredibly gorgeous, was quite intense, and you will really care for her character, she really did match her amazing performance in the 1st here, and it will be very interesting to see what her character will be like if they make a true sequel to this (full Werewolf?) (Perkins Rules!!!!!!!). Tatiana Maslany is brilliant as Ghost, she played the creepy psycho very well yet she still managed to be quite likable, she was also energetic had some good lines, had a wicked character, and was totally unpredictable, I predict big things for this young actress!. Eric Johnson is great as Tyler he was a bit of an ass and very cocky, but somehow yet still charming and quite likable I dug him for some reason, he did a good job. Janet Kidder is decent as Alice and did what she had to do adequately. Katharine Isabelle is still gorgeous as ever, but had only a few scenes was totally wasted! which was incredibly disappointing, I mean it was great to see her but I began thinking why did she even agree to make a few appearances with minimal dialog?. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall I highly recommend it. ***1/2 out of 5