Considering there were very few interesting movies at the video store last night, I decided to go with one that I hadn't heard about, Horsemen A Dennis Quaid film that flew under the radar? Well that seems to be the case considering it had an incredibly small theatrical release and now it appears Lionsgate is just dumping hordes of the movies at video stores in hopes of salvaging the production costs. So I get home and boot up the DVD and begin only to find something so horrific that I almost broke the DVD right then and there. It's a Michael Bay production. Dammit.<br /><br />I am being honest here when I say that I gave the movie a chance. I didn't automatically assume it would be crap even though it was more than likely, but instead went into it hoping for the best. The movie stars an aging Dennis Quaid who is an Indianapolis homicide detective who falls into a brutal case involving many different homicides all linked by the words "Come and See" written all over the walls surrounding the bodies. Ah, but this is not all as Dennis Quaid is also having problems with his children after a recent family tragedy What a shockingly original twist in a shockingly original plot! Gag me. As a Dennis Quaid fan, it pains me to see him in such an awful role. The script he is given is so clichéd and uninteresting that it is unbelievable this ever made it to production.<br /><br />Even though Michael Bay only produced Horsemen, his trademark screw-ups can be found slapped across every square inch of the film. The major problem Michael Bay films always has are human characters and emotions. The humans always have the depth and charisma of pieces of cardboard and always act like robots striving for emotional moments instead of real people acting, well, in a real fashion. It's all so fake and ridiculous that it's hard to take anything seriously, this in addition to how the script must have been written by a brain-dead squirrel. But my favorite aspect is the editing, which is simply astounding. There are montage sequences that utilize fading to black in every sequence, and almost all of the other scenes fade to black as well. If they were going for a dramatic and edgy feel, it failed miserably since all it leads to is a headache.<br /><br />Oh wait, I lied. My favorite part of the film is not the brilliant editing techniques, oh no, it's the incredible plot twists that I hinted at before. There were multiple times in the movie where I literally yelled "PLOT TWIST!" at the screen hoping that if my voice was loud enough, it could fly across the country and kick Michael Bay in the ass. Seriously, the twists were so ridiculous and uninteresting that none of them held and tension or were effective in any way. The ending is about as satisfying as sucking liquid feces through a straw, but I won't spoil it since I'll let viewers take it all in for themselves.<br /><br />After the film was over, the person I watched the movie with turned to me and stated that it was truly the absolute worst movie he had ever seen in his life. This is the same person I watched Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen with, mind you. Horsemen may not be worse than Transformers 2, but it really is a black hole of entertainment. It's about as much fun to watch as it is to have your poopchute Super-glued shut, and I would be hard pressed to make anybody suffer through this waste of time, let alone have to pay to see it. Michael Bay, can you please start using toilet paper instead of wiping your ass with film reels? It's expensive and it makes humanity cry.