"Marius and Jeannette" is a movie from Robert Guédiguian, a filmmaker who has almost always worked with the same actors. More important, this film that is supposed to be a tribute to the world of Marcel Pagnol was an unexpected success at the French box-office. I must admit that don't share this enthusiasm from the public at all. I would have liked not to have reserves about Guédiguian's work but it is impossible. I consider "Marius and Jeannette" as a really trite love story that takes in a popular district of Marseille (it is useful to add that all Guédiguian's works take place in this big French city). Trite, because it follows a classical outline: meeting, love affair, misunderstanding, separation and reconciliation. Moreover, there's ponderousness in Guédiguian's style and it is particularly true when the film turns to comedy. Due to this characteristic, it is nearly impossible to laugh honestly in the moments supposed to be funny.<br /><br />In fact, the disappointment from "Marius and Jeannette" mostly lies in its screenplay. For example, it doesn't avoid vulgarity (when Marius shows his bottom in the bar) and doesn't exclude implausibilities either: Jeannette's daughter wants to go to Paris to study journalism. A good idea as long as you work hard enough to fulfill one's dream. But here, you don't see her opening a book or studying! In another hand, the clichés linked to any love story haven't been forgotten: throughout the story, we learn that Marius' former wife died in a car crash. An annoying point: the music. Too overwhelming and clumsily used in the way it badly suits to the atmosphere of certain scenes.<br /><br />All right, Robert Guédiguian introduces his characters with a lot of affection and tenderness (particularly Marius) but it is not sufficient enough to make this movie pleasant. Quite obviously, the director isn't gifted to shot a comedy based on a love story. He is more at ease and convincing when it comes to make a gritty and realistic representation of Marseille. Try "La Ville est Tranquille" (2000) for instead.