I've seen some bad acting before, especially in gradeschool plays I've been forced to see, but never before have I seen acting worse than on Addams Family Reunion. The first five minutes shows the worst acting ever portrayed on television along with the worst animation. It's hard to decide who to blame as well, when they use a director who has no previous comedic directing skills. They credit three writers, including writer genius Charles Addams, but besides the characters I can't find his element int his movie anywhere. Out of the other two actors, one never worked on comedy before and the other was responsible for such drivel as Casper and Richie Rich, which is comedy but is extremely childish. Those are the only comedy movies credited to him.<br /><br />Whether you blame the writers or the directors, the fact of the matter is the actors are not up to par. The main character, the famous Gomez Addams, is played by the equally famous Tim Curry ("Dale the Whale", Monk. "Dr. Sevarious", Gargolyes. "Long John Silver", Muppet Treasure Island. "Sweet Transvestite", Rocky Horror Picture Show). Though I have seen Tim Curry do some of the most startlingly different roles while still coming off as brilliant, this is not one of them. He does not act like Gomez Addams, he acts like a British lord pretending to be Gomez.<br /><br />Morticia is also butchered by the likes of Daryl Hannah ("Elle Driver", Kill Bill. "Celia Jones", Ring of Fire. "Lizzie", My Favourite Martian.). Morticia's character is supposed to be french. Instead she seems to be Ukrainian or perhaps Russian. When she's supposed to be acting turned on because Gomez speaks french, she looks as if she's about to puke. Getting even a glimpse of her when she's not the person talking is enough to spoil the movie.<br /><br />Pat Thomas (nothing of note) as Fester was horrible. Pat Thomas is a horrible actor, whose roles are usually of himself. Even in this role he's credited as "Fester as Pat Thomas". His voice was all wrong. He sounds like a bad guy in the ninja turtles movie. Why did they replace Christopher Lloyd, who may have been the greatest actor in that time period? He also talks WAY too much. And he overacts far too much. When he's not on screen you can still hear him and when he's on screen but not staring he's always fidgeting. "Oh, Boy, this is great!" Calm the hell down, your fester not an Anime supervillian. When he's "speed reading" he takes more time to turn a page then he does pretending to read. And why does he start howling? That's the stupidest gag I've ever seen in a movie. He's obviously a stage actor, which I have nothing against, but this is a movie, not a play. And what the hell was when he started shaking for no reason in the car? This joke isn't even explained, he just starts shaking and overacting, gomez says "Are you OK" and he says yes.<br /><br />There is really no good time to watch this movie, with the possible exception of renting it when you're blind and deaf. If you're ever offered ten million dollars to watch this movie I suggest refusing.