Not one single good gag. Not one single funny line throughout the film. The entire cast gives lousy performances. I know that when the film was made, Raul Julia(may he rest in peace) had died, and that Christina Ricci was getting a little too old to play Wednesday; but did they really have to recast everyone else, too? The only original cast members left are Carel Struycken(Lurch) and Christopher Hart(Thing). All of the new cast is severely miscast; Tim Curry has pulled off some good performances in the past, but come on, he's just not Gomez. Not in a million years. He lacks the 'Latin-American' spirit that Raul possessed. Daryl Hannah obviously tries hard to portray a Morticia faithful to Anjelica Huston, but she fails; she's too lively, and far too naturally beautiful; they tried to cover it up(well, mostly... for some reason, she shows cleavage in the last scene... who thought of that? Ridiculously out of character.) but they couldn't. Another problem is that she's too luscious, whereas Morticia is supposed to have a dangerously, unhealthy thin figure. Patrick Thomas, who plays Fester, is a joke. A bad one. He overdoes Fester so horribly, that I actually cringed every single second he was on screen. I doubt that he could have done much worse. The new child actors are also bad; Nicole Fugere as Wednesday lacks the eeriness and creepiness of Christina Ricci. She never conveys any sort of emotion, not even the disgust that Ricci did so well in the previous two films, whenever something happy or lively was around. Nicole lacks that talent; she just looks the part, that's all. It's pretty much the same with Jerry Messing, the new Pugsley. He looks pretty much like Pugsley is supposed to look, but lacks the acting ability of Jimmy Workman, the actor from the two previous films. The humor of the film is as bad as it gets; whereas the first two had great black humor, this one is reduced to childish humor, which just every once in a while has a bit of 'blackness' to it. But it's all childish, which means tons of humiliation of, and ridiculous amounts of pain inflicted to, different characters for no apparent reason(other than to make children and people with equally bad humor laugh). The effects are also excruciatingly bad; you would have thought that they'd have developed better techniques through the five-six years that passed between making the previous film in the series and this. I mean, honestly, the effects look worse than they did back in the first film. All in all, this is one of the worst films I've ever seen, and I think it's too bad that they had to end the series with such a horribly unfunny film. I don't recommend this horrid piece of garbage to anyone, even children shouldn't be mistreated and go through the pure torture it is to watch this wretched film. You think I'm exaggerating? See it for yourself... no, better yet; take my word for it... it's horrible. One of the most pathetic attempts at comedy I've ever had the enduring pain of watching. If you do decide to give this film a chance, be prepared for the absolute worst. You were warned... 1/10