The Last Samurai is a movie about the fascination of Americans for Japanese culture, more specifically Japanese heroism. But focusing on heroism alone dangerously narrows down the subject and approaching it from an American viewpoint warps and twists it into a failure. Before explaining why, here is a short summary of the plot.<br /><br />American army captain Nathan Algren, played by Tom Cruise, is disillusioned after participating in gruesome slaughter of native American Indians. A friend of him convinces him to come to Japan to help strike down revolts of Japanese samurai, who oppose the new Meiji government's reforms. Soon he faces them, is beaten and captured, but samurai leader Katsumoto, played by Ken Watanabe, spares his life and patiently lets him experience the Japanese lifestyle, specifically bushido, the samurai warrior code. Algren is so gripped by them that he joins their side and helps them in their final efforts to plea and fight for their cause.<br /><br />This could have have been a nice movie. All ingredients are there: A period of turmoil with great historical importance, a clash of cultures, heroic warriors and of course a solid budget. But the movie never succeeds in convincing. There are a number of reasons for that. First, the acting is mediocre. Nobody really flunks, but never do you see one of them really being their character, instead of pretending to. Secondly, the plot follows a very predictable Hollywood path, never surprising, increasingly boring. The only surprise is that Algren manages to get into a romance with a Japanese lady, which is only surprising because you would not expect the writers to insert such a standard thing into a story that does not suit it at all. Thirdly, the sparse action scenes are shot with an overload of pomp and drama, similar to Mel Gibson - Braveheart / Peter Jackson - Lord of the Rings style, with long drawn out views of heroes dying heroically, or should I say refusing to die for minutes on end? Especially the final battle is pathetically overdone and suggest that the only purpose of the samurai was to die with honor. Did anyone ever consider that samurai also lived lives? Some people have compared this Edward Zwick - Tom Cruise combo product to the works of Akira Kurosawa, who seems to be their own hero. My advice: If you want to see a good movie about Japanese samurai, go watch movies made by the Japanese themselves. For instance, the works of aforementioned Akira Kurosawa, who could have taught Zwick and Cruise some moves.