I've heard a lot of people criticise this movie, and the ‘Child's Play' sequels for that matter, for being unnecessary and personally I have to agree. None of the sequels really offered anything that the original didn't and thus they became rather boring movies.<br /><br />Following the bad publicity of the ‘Good Guy' doll after the Andy Barclay (Alex Vincent) became public knowledge the aforementioned doll was removed from sale. Naturally nobody believes that the doll murdered anybody (Andy's mother is now institutionalised for backing her son's story up in court) but they do believe that Andy was somehow disturbed by his Good Guy doll ‘Chucky'. Rumours have floated about that the internal tape may have been changed. The company that makes the ‘Good Guy' dolls have decided to reintroduce their product and to quell concerns over the dolls the doll containing the spirit of Charles Lee Ray, the notorious Lakeshore strangler, is manually re-assembled. Unfortunately the spirit of Charles aka Chucky is still resident and he once again resumes his quest to regain a human body, which puts the now fostered Andy in trouble once again.<br /><br />There's a little more bloodshed, a few more victims and more screen time for Chucky but all in all this movie is not particularly fulfilling. Fans of the original may be impressed by the extra screen time for the foul-mouthed, murdering toy Chucky, but on subsequent viewings the movie no longer stands up. The plot leaves a lot to be desired and the characters all seem rather wooden and unrealistic. A pre-‘Beverly Hills 90210' Christine Elise plays Kyle, the only character in the movie that may garner any audience sympathy and respect and even she seems dull and contrived throughout the movie. ‘Child's Play 2' had no input from original creator Tom Holland and it certainly shows through as the general direction and execution of this movie is poor. The final ten minutes or so of the film are the only moments that really seem to shine through but this is too little, too late from writer Don Mancini and director John Lafia. Other than the finale it's just a far too logical next step from the original and tries too hard to capture the good parts of that movie without trying to improve upon them. A little more humour is added to the mix but still the movie offers nothing of any real distinction to be a satisfactory sequel. My rating for ‘Child's Play 2' – 5/10