(Almost) Every horror movie has its degrading sequels, and Child's Play is no different. Well what can I say, if you've seen the original movie you probably realize what this sequel is about. Chucky the killer doll, with the inhabited soul of a madman, is back again! And he's angrier, and more sadistic, and wielding more corny one-liners than ever. All Chucky fans remember that he was burnt to a toasty crisp in the first movie. However in order to dispel rumors that Chucky ever came to life, the business that makes the Good-Guy Dolls decides to preposterously rebuild him, and show the public nothing is wrong with the doll. When they do this, Chucky comes back to life and sets out to find Andy Barclay (Alex Vincent). The kid he needs to voodoo in order to come back to life as a human. Chucky finds Andy in the hands of his new foster parents Phil (Gerrit Graham) and Joann (Jenny Agutter), and a stepsister Kyle (Christine Elise). Andy realizes that Chucky is after him, but as always nobody believes the youngster. Until the crazy, psychotic doll begins running out of time to turn human again, and sadistically murders anyone in his way of Andy.<br /><br />First things first, the original Child's Play is a campy classic, Child's Play 2 is not. Whereas the original had a way of composing itself with fine suspense and acting, which helped shut out the corniness of its doll-come-to-life plot. This utterly puke-inducing sequel has no way to take itself seriously at all. It happens in a lot of horror films with a lead slasher. Freddy Kruegger fell victim to crappy one-liners, Jason Voorhees turned out to be a frady-cat loser as a kid (Freddy Vs. Jason), and even Michael Myers got his butt kicked by Busta Rhymes. The only slightly creepy thing about Child's Play 2 is the ending, which takes place in the Good-Guys Doll Factory. But that can't save this ludicrously over-the-top slasher sequel. The acting is mild, the script only gets creative with the kills, and even the kills are more unsettling than scary.<br /><br />The few parts where Chucky kills somebody go too far over the top, to the point where you almost (or may) laugh at them. While they were a bit creative, I was repulsed by them in every imaginable way. There is a random, grotesque kill where Chucky pushes an innocent man onto a conveyor belt, and he is killed when doll eyes are punched into his face. It's scenes like this that, while creepy, really cross the line. Horror fans may enjoy a movie with nasty kills. But for me there has to be something to back it up, or it's just a senseless kill. I think it's absolutely disgusting how Hollywood glorifies murder on screen nowadays. It's only gotten progressively worse over the years after Child's Play 2. This review is being written in 2008, and the theaters are filled with Saw, Hostel, and more torture, torture, torture! I don't understand why people are so intrigued by gore. What fascinates audiences so much with it that it makes big money in ticket sales? A person gets killed on screen and there's no tragedy, but yet everyone gets upset and mourns when someone dies in real life. There's a word for that and it's called "Hypocrite".<br /><br />Child's Play 2 is an awful horror film. The poster art is scarier than the movie itself. Chucky did not deserve to have a horror series because in my opinion he's one of the worst horror icons since the evil killer Leprechaun. However I do have to give it points for its eery, creepy "playtime" atmosphere (such as the doll factory scene). I give Child's Play 2 a 1 out of 4. It's a gruesome 84 minutes, and for me it was too inhumane and it just wasn't worth it. Child's Play 2 was followed by 3 more sequels...Oh brother!