Hello, movie lovers... I, StroGirl (Astro fan to the EXTREME) would like to give my unbiased opinion of UNSPEAKABLE... Yes the movie is unspeakable, unspeakable as to how bad it really is. What makes the movie so bad? Well alot of things, however, all that is bad centers around Dr. Pavan Grover... The shocking thing is that Dr. Grover asked for millions to do this film, just as out of touch with reality as DR. EVIL... He should have asked for billions! Maybe then he could have made something that wasn't so bad... I mean with a billion dollars he could have got every big name in Hollywood to surround his lack of talent. The acting was a joke, especially Grover. Take it from a warm blooded American girl anyone who thinks Grover is hot has got real bad taste, he was creepy and that is just how he is that is not acting. And what is up with his lips? He reminded me of a Simpson's character, maybe a young Mr. Burns. The worst part for me was the fight scenes that looked like something out of a 1970's movie. The writing was absolutely the worst... This is not a horror because it is not scary, not a pyschological thriller because it has no real psychology or thrills, it is bad just bad that is it. I know why I have never seen Grover in a film before he is bad... Furthermore Hopper was terrible too! Maybe Grover rubbed off on him. This is not a spoiler but, some interesting moments to look out for: 1.) During the Mexican carivan scene first the guy drops his gun then a black man in a animal wrangle outfit walks into the shot, real bad editing... kinda funny though... 2.) Grover in the office fight scene is a riot 3.) Any execution scene in the chair is pretty funny too, in one the guys in the background crack up, also I don't think the writer (the Grover-inator)did much research on the electric chair. None of the electri-cuties (NOT!) had their head shaved? I guess Grover was too attached to his big hair to respect realism. There was no sponges... and no hood. Oh and there were like 50 people in the room, I guess the flesh burning smell is good? OH I love it when a writer says "the heck with realism, research, and writing a good script; all I care about are Zoolander-ish shots of me in the lead role." I could go on forever, but some dumb souls will see it, somewhere, sadly...