What can one say about a TV show whose main objective is to be as deliberately awful as possible, and that somehow is supposed to be brilliant comedy? I barely made it through this disc, and I was astonished at how truly awful this stuff is. The only time I laughed out loud was when John C. Reilly showed up as Dr. Bruse. Reilly is a very good actor, and it was the only time during the show that I actually laughed heartily. If I was John's agent, I would recommend to him not to do this show anymore, as it belittles him as an actor and artist. Fred Willard also shows up, and while I love Mr. Willard's work, he can't rescue the scene he's in, which is pretty lame. The series isn't completely devoid of laughs, but aside from John Reilly's work, I laughed maybe 3 times during the whole season. The series is more creepy than funny. <br /><br />It's a pretty poor indication of a show's quality when the episodes are a mere 11 minutes long, and I kept checking the DVD to see when it was going to be over. The eleven minutes seem longer than Gone With the Wind at times. The targets of the satire seem to be local cable commercials, which are actually funnier than most of the stuff here. The "gravy robbers" is one of the dumbest (not "funny dumb") sketches I ever saw. The "editing", if one can call it that, is not done with any rhyme or reason, even in an artistic sense. It's all just random, and it isn't funny or interesting. <br /><br />This is not brilliant comedy, as some say here. I'm getting really tired of people simply thinking since this show (and others of its ilk) polarise people, that automatically makes its art. Some nimrod here on IMDb actually compared this show to Stravinsky's The Rite of Spring, in terms that when The Rite of Spring first appeared, the audience was shocked at the performance of it, and it split the audience. That comparison is so mind bogglingly off that one staggers at it. A couple of rules of life... <br /><br />1. Just because something is controversial doesn't make it brilliant. 2. Just because something isn't mainstream doesn't mean it's good. 3. Just because something like this is weird doesn't make it good. 4. Just because someone doesn't like this doesn't mean they watch Friends or Two and a Half Men. 5. Just because something polarises people doesn't make it art. <br /><br />Some have said it's deliberately surreal, but it isn't. It's just lazy and incoherent. It has some similar qualities to MTV2's Wonder Showzen, except Wonder Showzen had some real creative transitions in the first season (the 2nd season wasn't as good...the drugs they took must have worn off). I think many who think this show is some sort of misunderstood artistic masterpiece are just reading way too much into it, and it's the product of their own imaginations rather than any brilliance on the part of Tim and Eric.