This documentary is badly edited to the point it is a complete failure. To say that it should be shown in schools is lunacy. It is not for the children. Adults only. It is disgusting. I accidentally watched it in 1998. The footage should be held and used by the police, army, medical services, security services and forensic departments. Some of the footage casts serious question upon certain actions that may have historical political relevance in war crimes which should be studied by the appropriate authorities who are responsible for investigating such atrocities. It is clear that other footage may give truthful accounts of history not commonly upheld as a common truth by many communities, therefore these instances should be separated and studied in there self so that realistic conclusions may be arrived at and actions taken to educate the public about what is really happening in the world. It is a sick and very emotive to the level it can make you sick. There are some specific points that are definitely important to be aware of in a democracy that may be inserted either to shock or to educate by drawing on the shock level of other included footage, the effective educational value of these particular diatribes becomes diluted by the rest of the documentary. I see this collection of footage as counter-productive to itself due to the idealistic idiocy demonstrated by the editors who have most probably either been in shock by the footage or have assembled the film in such a fashion as to deconstruct the viewers mind in such a way that they may question their own countries values and ethics to the level of becoming isolated in ones own beliefs. The footage gives a serious look at what many do not know and what many turn a blind eye to, it should only be viewed by those experienced in such areas as the unexperienced could well find themselves with a subconscious ticket to an asylum. It is a sad day when footage from a film like this becomes public, an even sadder day when people want to watch it. It is not nice and to be quite honest it makes me a bit angry, unfortunately it is as real as it gets. Watch it and say goodbye to a priceless piece of your own mind. You have been warned! They say you get more feeling from reading a book before you watch a film, if Executions was a text I doubt you would want to ever see a film of it as you would then understand that sometimes the graphic components ARE stronger than written text. It is somewhat interesting from a historical context if you are a criminal investigator or anyone involved in the study of serious psychological / neurological disorders or any areas of research that may involve violent dictatorships without any remorse to humanity. Don't burn your soul, please. At least watch Cannibal Ferox first!