Obviously a film like this is destined to have a fanbase. While I absolutely found it truly awe-inspiringly dreadful, that same feeling I had as I sat through it will be a reverse for those who love absolute trash which is what this is. I never had a clue anyone could make such an inept hunk of crap and pass it off as funny. The plot, as incredibly(and messily)convoluted as it is, is about some Aztec glass skull which seemingly grants powers. Jesse and Charlie, two buddies living in a house that has rooms which lead to other times or alternate universes or whatever the hell these rooms lead to, decide to dig up dear old Gramps(played by Royal Dano, covered head to toe in dead make-up). Gramps is the holder of the skull, but certain beings from the alternate universe rooms each desire to covet the skull. So it's up to Jesse and Charlie to keep the skull from the hands of those willing to take it. The film has a nemesis of Gramps, nicknamed Slim who was the one that killed Jesse's parents in the opening of the film. Bill Maher has a small role that fits him like a glove..he plays the head of a record company who desires to have Kesse's woman and finds a way thanks to Rochelle, an old flame from his past. Due to bad luck, Jesse loses his girl, Kate, to Maher who finds that Rochelle, for some odd reason, is hidden in a cabinet. How a drunken Rochelle got there is a mystery(the one Jesse actually put in there was Gramps who, coincidentally found a button which revolves the wall of the cabinet), but Jesse loses Kate anyways. So Maher, playing the scumbag ohh so perfectly drives off with Kate and her bags while Jesse and Charlie commence prying the skull away from a Ptierodactyl. Yep, the skull was taken by a caveman who carries it to his jungle(in one of those rooms in the house). As Charlie was about to be bashed by the caveman, this giant dinosaur eats him. So they are able to get the skull just to lose it to a Ptierodactyl who drops it off on a high tree nest. And on and on the absurdity goes. There's a tribe of men who steal the skull from Gramps when he had just gotten it back thanks to Charlie and Jesse's "trading" a piece of raw meat for the skull(the Ptierodactyl actually enters the world from his jungle as does a caterpillar dog! when Jesse falls off the tree trying to pry the skull away from the friggin' bird). Soon Charlie and Jesse(with the aide of Ratzenberger, as an electrician/adventurer)have to battle the ancient tribe for the skull and save a potential female sacrifice in the long run. Shall I go one? There's eventually a showdown between Slim and Jesse for the rights to the skull and the cops come a callin' when gun shots are heard. Slim tries to shoot Jesse(but his head is gone when Jesse shoots it off with a shotgun)and hits a policeman outside instead commencing in a round of fire into the house burning it down. Jesse and crew wind up in the old west and get to bury Gramps who dies after Slim shoots him. This film, as I have tried somehow to describe above, is absolutely absurd. It's a junkpile of ideas cobbled together in the hopes that something entertaining might spawn from it and never does. You have this house who abilities are never explained. How come these rooms are a gateway into other times? Beats me. Why is there a caterpillar with a dog's head or an Aztec skull with powers to keep Gramps alive? So many goofy questions, and such little motivation by me to care. A disaster for which I consider one of the worst films of the 1980's.