Think about Haneke films, some other films that have been interpreted as a criticism of middle class, upper class or bourgeoisie, city life, suburban life, family institution and think about some horror movies which have been seen in the same way which has become a trend now. This is a sick, but for them pleasant fantasy, isn't it? In such movies, middle class, upper class deserve being murdered, being raped, being tortured, getting pain. This puts a smile on some people's face. They see red. Apart from everything, this is anti humanism that sorry, but I don't weigh in with. In Haneke movies, one of the main messages is wake up! They say. Who should wake up for what? Middle class and upper class are evil? Middle class and upper class are disgusting creatures? City life is unbearable, so kill yourself if you live in a city, because you are pathetic and realize! your life consists of repetitious actions? City life makes you isolated and unhappy? Wake up! Those people draw a parallel between lambs and people, if they behave like a conformist or forget about being conformist, if you are not interested in such things, if you are not against everything, then you are a lamb. Not finished yet. Obviously, as we see from reviews of Haneke movies, being educated is pathetic either. Some make fun of it and they love movies which make fun of it. Good. And job absurdity. In T. S. C. some reviews write that the father has a good job, but it is monotonous, so it drags him to a disaster. Can we draw a conclusion like having a job is in their black list either? Yes. What is the point then? I will tell you: hate. Class conflict, Marksizm... In T. S. C. in Haneke movies, all the members of middle class and upper class are punished including the families who live from hand to mouth, including civil servants etc. A deadly bourgeoisie enmity. If you live in a city, you are from middle class, you are evil, if you have money, even if you turn an honest penny, you are evil. Think about the ending of T. S. C. It makes some people cheered up. Is this reasonable? I get bored of this. The movie is a criticism of suburban life, it stresses that suburban life is monotonous. Always the same. T. S. C. stresses that middle class and upper class consume, consuming is important in bourgeoisie life, the film criticizes consumer society. All living organisms consume in order to survive, not only human being, also animals and plants. Yes, you know these, but it seems that they don't. A middle or upper class family go on holiday and they are tortured physically and psychologically. George A. Romero is like Haneke. They interpreted his fourth zombie movie, Land of the Dead as a criticism of middle class and upper class. Zombies devour rich people. Enjoy! Rich or not, yuppie or not, townsmen or countrymen, civil servant or bank employer, these people enjoy watching the slaughter of people who they hate. And what about vilifying family institution and marriage institution? The Seventh Continent hates all. If a movie is not against these institutions, so does not criticize, then it means that the movie is conservative. What a ridiculous viewpoint! May be so that they symbolizes system. Le Charme Discret de la Bourgeoisie. It was an entertaining surreal drama, a work of art, a masterpiece and also a movie which everyone interprets differently, to me no message, but according to those people, no, it makes fun of middle class, it makes fun of their lives, their personalities. How miserable their lives are, how stupid they are. It is a satire. They view movies with a jaundiced eye, from dialogs, characters and images, they find hundreds of messages. Of course T. S. C. is not a quintessential art as Bunuel's work, besides it is extremely malicious. I remember the well dressed man with hat who sings song in the rain in 1952 and joy of living he has. And I know that how Haneke and his followers see him.