Unfortunately, the definition of "documentary" seems to be changing. These days it is what we used to call propaganda. (See: any Michael Moore movie.) No attempt at balance, just a totally one-sided, biased point of view passing as fact. Heckler is the latest example. Actually, it starts out as a whine about hecklers, quickly turning into the same complaint about critics. It does teach a serious lesson: celebrities (especially comics) are gods and deserve to be worshipped at all times and anyone who doesn't like them should be deprived of their right to an opinion, or at least the right to make it public.<br /><br />There are some good points made: you get drunks and a-holes disrupting performances for no apparent reason other than to call attention to themselves. As someone who paid to watch the performer, I really don't appreciate that in principle, but I have to admit that some of the funniest moments I've ever experienced at comedy clubs were when the performer responded to the heckler. Sometimes I wonder if they purposely plant hecklers just so they can lay into them. And some (maybe most) critics are way over the top in their reviews, but that's one way these days to make your opinions stand out from the ever-growing crowd.<br /><br />Occasionally I can sympathize with a heckler. If you've paid good money for a performance that was not as advertised and you can't get your money back (let alone your time), you can get pretty frustrated. That's what happened at the Barbra Streisand concert where she swore at a heckler. What the movie purposely failed to tell you provoked the heckler was that, instead of singing, she had gone into a political rant - probably not what the audience had paid big bucks to see. It also happened to me at a no-refunds Willie Nelson show where he was clearly drunk and/or stoned.<br /><br />It's true that no one ever put up a statue to a critic, but they do have their place. You just need to find one whose opinions and tastes are similar to your own and thus s/he will provide you with valuable guidance. As for the others, ignore them. As should the performers, rather than trying to suppress them.<br /><br />This argument that the heckler/critic couldn't do as good a job really shows you how shallow the movie's thought process is. If a dentist, driveway paver, plumber, tax preparer, etc. does a bad job, are they justified in telling you not to complain because they're still better than you? While there were plenty of celebrities, where were the ordinary people? You know, those who buy the tickets, enabling these celebrities to make a living. Why not ask some of them after a comedy show what they thought of the hecklers? Do they think people buying tickets should be told clearly that hecklers are not welcome and will be thrown out without a refund? Do they think people should be able, within a reasonable time, to ask for and get a refund if they don't like the performance? Do they pay any attention to critics and change their choices as a result? That's what a real documentary would do.