I rented this film simply because from time to time I enjoy watching a bad movie--you know, ones that are so inept and stupid that they're good for a laugh. Well, the film was pretty much what I expected, though the quality of the production was not quite as horrible as films by other contemporary "artists" like Al Adamson, Larry Buchanan, William Grefe and Ray Dennis Steckler--but it was very, very close. That's because one or two of the non-professional actors didn't totally suck and the story was goofy enough to keep my attention.<br /><br />The film begins with a lady letting a cat into the house--and the lady is immediately attacked by a flesh-craving pussycat! Then the scene switches to some cretin and his insane wife at a cemetery gathering corpses to sell to the cat food company. This pair looks pretty much like typical guests on "The Jerry Springer Show". Well, the dirtballs who buy the corpses take the bodies back to work and stuff them in a silly looking machine that grinds them into puree. Oddly, though the corpses weigh between 100-200 pounds, the container catching the puree is only about big enough to hold a Pomeranian, but this is a minor detail. A bit later, a doctor is bitten by a flesh-hungry cat and he and his nurse (who looks a bit like a stripper) go off on their own to investigate. What I really liked was how they didn't even bother going through the police--putting them, of course, in harm's way. While there's of course much more to the film than this, considering it's basically about grinding corpses into cat chow, there really isn't much point in going further.<br /><br />Cheap sets, amateur acting, a silly script (that must have later inspired the film EATING RAOUL), over-acting fog machine and tepid directing, this is a cheapie horror drive-in film and nothing more or less. Despite the topic, the film is pretty tame stuff and is good for a laugh or two--but lacks the true awfulness to make it a cult classic.<br /><br />Oh, by the way, if you were wondering, they were NOT using sign language in the film. I am proficient in American Sign Language and it's not even close to this or other sign systems.