a much longer version of this is on myspace.<br /><br />The documentary is what if the South had won The Civil War, but it is actually a thinly disguised ruse on the part of Lee and Director Kevin Willmott to inculcate into the minds of the viewers that whites are racist by nature. <br /><br />Throughout this insidious piece of trash, historical content is contently twisted and in serious question, as if they figure anyone dumb enough to eat this propaganda will not have much of an educational background to spot the discrepancies in historical facts. They might be able to pull the new timeline crap in a new Star Trek movie but it doesn't work when we're talking about a new history of The United States. The show goes through an overview of the history of the the CSA from 1860 to the present. There is the Spanish American War where this new American invades Mexico. Scratching your head yet? Did it ring a bell yet? If you said Mexican wasn't involved in the Spanish American War because they were no longer a part of Spain you win the cookie. So we invade Mexican, Annex the country, and then enslave the Mexican people. We couldn't even catch one bandit named Pancho Villa down there in 1917 and these people who made this what if movie think that we could conquer and rule Mexico We might have beaten .Mexico in the 1847-48 Mexico War, but to occupy and rule the county is another war, and one we would have unlikely won. The insurgency that would have followed would have lasted decades, especially since we intended to make the Mexican people slaves. However, let alone Mexico, this documentary has us conquering and ruling South America, too and enslaving those people. Ruling counties like the British Empire did is one thing and could very well have worked (since the British didn't turn the people into slaves), but when you enslave the people, you fuel the embers that heat the fire insurgency. Rule them maybe, enslave an entire country without dire consequences, fantasy. ..<br /><br />One sequence of the film shows Abraham Lincoln being exiled into Canada. In a filmed interview of Lincoln in 1905, he ponders on how he wished he could have helped the blacks gain their freedom. I guess the Spike Lee and Willmott are unaware that sound movies were not invented until 1918 and not commercially used until 1920, usually little two minute news clips. <br /><br />The last segment shows the election of Richard Nixon and John Kennedy. (That those two would still be candidates after all these timeline changes or that there are elections at all in such a country is truly mind boggling). I think the election it's to show Democracy as racist and evil. Nixon is shown to be the pro slave racist (We all know that Republicans are all racists, right- see Lincoln the Republican) and Kennedy is shown to the emancipator trying to stop slavery. And the assassination (which once again, in the real timeline, was tied to Oswald's trip to Russia and his being a communist- No cold war with Russia, remember?) is shown to be a conspiracy to keep America in slavery. After this, the revolt by Black Americans (This timeline's version of the civil rights movement) is put down. There are innuendos in this part as the black insurgents are called terrorists by the media, and a black commentator from Europe says something like "One person's terrorist is another person's freedom fighter, a reference to today's war on terror and a back door way of displaying sympathy for today's terrorists who attacked America on 911- a very clever attack by Lee and Willmott on their own country. Later, we see Ronald Reagan as a strong supporter of slavery. <br /><br />Throughout this bad piece of liberal and racist propaganda are what if TV commercials, showing white people selling products that all have a heavy derogatory slam against black people, insulting both their intelligence and humanity. However, these commercials have another motive, an insidious motive that labels white people as natural born racists, and vilifies whites as the oppressors of the world. To imply that blacks can't be racist but whites can is a form of racism that is as bad as any Jim Crow law. <br /><br />I could probably go on but I've made my point. Spike Lee is a racist. He hates white people and wants to vilify them and show them to be inherently evil, which is racist. Hitler did a similar thing when he made documentaries showing the Jewish people to be sneaky, perfidious, and greedy.