This mockumentary is godawful. The jokes are lame and the actors mug through their roles with no sense of timing or subtlety, telegraphing every punchline. The "history" is also poorly thought-out. Not only does the film ask us to buy that the Confederacy annexed all of the Union, but Central and South America and the rest of the continental U.S. as we know, it, too. <br /><br />But not Canada. One of the stupidest bits was the idea that the Asian population would grow in California because new Chinese immigrants couldn't believe they would be enslaved upon arrival. As if enough Asians haven't moved to Canada over the years because they didn't like the conditions that America did offer. Surely, in this scenario, they would have simply emigrated to Canada, instead.<br /><br />Basically, the film wants to drop us into the same spot where we are now, but following a Confederate victory one hundred and forty years before. To this end, the film's makers leave out all sorts of inconvenient historical trends and incidents like industrialism (the real reason why slavery became economically nonviable), Marxism, World War I, the expansion of the British Empire, the rise of Arab petropower and the Cold War. Russia doesn't even get a look-in. And the bit about Harriet Tubman and Lincoln in blackface is just straight-up offensive.<br /><br />Strangely enough, modern Confederates in this film also share the views of modern extreme right-wing Republicans in our timeline. Why? People in the Confederacy were as varied a lot as people in the Union. Why automatically assume that we would have a repressed, conservative, homophobic, antisemitic Bible Belt dominating a Confederate world just because some fanatics who insist on perpetuating the conflict culturally are like this? This seems like an ignorant excuse to insult Southerners--not just White (both Christian and Jewish) but also Black, Hispanic and Asian. Nobody in the South gets off without a good slap. It's as if the filmmakers were looking for an excuse to indulge in every vicious Southern stereotype they could manage without causing a huge uproar. And no, deliberately making the Confederates unrealistically expansionist so that the filmmakers could turn the Japanese (whose army murdered tens of millions of Asians before and during WWII) and the Central and South Americans (who have their own obsessions with skin color and racial ancestry) into blameless victims of Confederate aggression doesn't make the stereotypes any more palatable.<br /><br />As the Shaw quote that starts off the film notes, you'd better make people laugh while you're telling them the truth. This film does neither: it's not funny and it's neither honest nor truthful. It only exists to get a rise out of people. All it got out of me was a desire to get my money back.