Louis Burke is an undercover cop sent to investigate a prison where inmates are inexplicably dying. Doesn't sound too shabby, Jean Claude Van Damme in a prison full of people who can slowly put their faces on his feet and fists. That is, in essence, why you would watch a Jean Claude Van Damme movie so it's disappointing that this is exactly the opposite of what happens. After running around corridors for an hour and a half, being put in solitary confinement (although allowed out to have sex, because sweet mercy that's what being Jean Claude Van Damme is about) Burke suddenly finds out inmates are being killed and their organs removed, not in some event relating last hour's worth of clues he'd been gathering but because the guards left a surgical saw conveniently next to their big suspicious medical cabinet. Despite knowing full well at this point Burke is an undercover police officer, rather than simply kill him they decide to resurrect the most homosexual super villain since the 1960's "The Joker" to do the job for them. After having his cronies beat up Burke The Sandman brandishes a knife in his general direction, stroke's Burke's torso a bit and walks of laughing whilst Burke collapses (due to the damage incurred by two minute Hispanic men slapping his shoulders). From here in the movie just becomes one massive cock tease. There are about 4 opportunities where you're CERTAIN an awesome fight scene is about to break out. Opportunity 1: Hundreds of prisoners begun running at Burke, just asking to introduce their skulls to his feet. Fight avoided by fat evil guard shutting door on prisoners. Opportunity 2: Nasty guards surround Burke, leave their guns outside and start being massive jerks. Situations revolved by priest running in and shooting guards. Opportunity 3: Evil guard, who has been begging for a fight since the beginning of the movie enters the room with a shotgun and begins goading Burke into a fight. Fortunatly the guard stops to tell an injured black man how he's certainly going to shoot him then stands there smiling into space for over 7 seconds before Priest (with no real explanation why he's there)simply walks in and shoots him. Opportunity 4: Burke's spider sense tells him The Sandman is close by, and he flexes he screams for his nemesis to engage him in a final duel. The Sandman doesn't feel like duelling and instead takes Burke out by THROWING A SPANNER AT HIM....real mature asshole.<br /><br />At this point Burke and the Sandman enter into a tall rectangular room, with the entire inmate population gathered above them, cheering for Burke's demise. I hope you're not the type of person who enjoys action movies with a climactic final battle, though if you're the kind of person who enjoys movies with a hilarious slap fight you're in for a treat. Here is a brief overview of the fight: - The Sandman picks up a bottle and slaps Burke with it 4 times. - Exhausted by the effort of slapping man with a bottle, The Sandman stands bolt still for a good 5 seconds before diving on the floor while Burke waves his feet in his general direction. - The Sandman runs over to a huge furnace, opens it, puts his hands in the air and begins giggling like a schoolgirl. - After standing laughing for another 5 seconds Burke's simply kicks The Sandman into a furnace - The sandman leaps out of the furnace, charred to a crisp, puts himself out by rolling, stands in front of a piece of metal sticking out of a wall and giggles at the camera for a further five seconds. - Burke performs the exact same kick, only this time The Sandman is impaled on a spike. With his last words he reminds Burke that he is The Sandman and resumes his giggling until he dies. - The inmates, overjoyed that Burke killed their companion, decide he's not such a bad guy after all and let him leave the prison.<br /><br />Burke kisses his girlfriend, his one eye'd black companion is put in an ambulance (fortunatly the gun wound directly to his heart is now on his stomach so he'll probably live). Credits roll, we all wonder what the hell happened to a movie which started out quite well.