The Core is such a bore to sit through and it doesn't really make a lot of sense either. For reasons unknown, the earth's inner core has stopped rotating, causing the planet's electromagnetic field to rapidly deteriorate. Instantly, life around the globe begins to change dramatically. Scrambling to resolve the crisis, government and military officials call upon geophysicist Dr. Josh Keyes and a team of the world's most gifted scientists to travel into the earth's core in a subterranean craft piloted by Rebecca "Beck" Childs and Commander Robert Iverson. Their mission: detonate a nuclear device that will reactivate the core and save the world from sure destruction. The plot sounds exciting and this could have been a good disaster type flick Unfortunately it wasn't as this film was pretty boring. I know this isn't a film your supposed to take seriously. Your just supposed to sit back and relax. I did try doing that and it still wasn't very enjoyable for me. The film starts off nice but by the middle it starts getting too stupid even by my low standards. The cast is talented, too bad they don't show it in this film. Hilary Swank is a great actress yet she couldn't even save this film. DJ Qualls, Stanley Tucci, Bruce Greenwood and Glenn Morshower are all good actors yet they all together could not save The Core. The worst actor in the film is Aaron Eckhart and I find it odd that he gets work in Hollywood. Jon Amiel directs and he does a poor job of doing so. The only thing this film had that was above average was the special effects. Everything else about this film was pretty bad. The acting was bad and the dialog was pretty lame as well. The direction was bad and there was very little character development. Some of these things don't really matter in this type of film but it becomes more noticeable when you don't find the movie entertaining. The science isn't realistic though that's a given. The Core runs for a very long 135 minutes and it feels longer then that. Sometimes the film is unintentionally funny and that's always a bad sign. Some of the destruction scenes were okay but they were no where as good as The Day After Tomorrow and other disaster films. In the end, The Core is a pretty bad film and it fails to entertain. Rating 3.4/10, worth skipping as there are better films out there.