Of the multitudinous bad movies that have come out of Hollywood over the years, it would be difficult to pick the worst. This film would certainly be a candidate. West, having enjoyed a late film career resurgence with 1970's "Myra Breckinridge", made one final celluloid splash before her death (at least, it is widely reported that she was still alive while filming this!) This deadly, dreadful horror is the result. Sauntering (if that verb can be used to describe something so sloooww!) around in a variety of surprisingly flattering Edith Head gowns, Miss West cashes in on nearly every one of her memorable quotations from years gone by. Her face is pulled taut to reveal a row of buck teeth, slits for eyes and a platinum wig piled to the ceiling. There is no chance of her face being able to emote even the vaguest expression or reaction. The thin plot involves her wedding day (to Dalton!) being interrupted by several of her former husbands as she tries to prepare for a new film and...of course ensure world peace from a group of dignitaries staying at her hotel! She wanders around mouthing filthy double entendres about sex, but thankfully, never does get around to any. Hapless has-beens Curtis, Starr and Hamilton play a few of her earlier grooms. DeLuise tries earnestly to inject some degree of comedy into the utterly lame and ridiculous story, but his talents are wasted. The worst part is that several well-known songs have been carelessly planted into the script in a halfhearted attempt to make this turkey a musical! Waxlike West considers singing as she waddles around caressing her hair and stomach, Dalton is dubbed during a hopeless duet with her, a dozen or so fruity bellhops prance through the hotel lobby and, at the end, an unrecognizable Cooper pointlessly pops in to serenade West as she is about to leave. DeLuise has a spirited number in which he tap dances on a piano and sings in front of a cardboard cut-out of West. There is absolutely no difference between the cut-out and the real thing except that the cut-out is carved on the sides to make it look thinner. West even has a ghastly number delivered to various weight-lifting titleholders dressed in '70's Speedos. It all sounds like it's so bad it might actually be unintentionally funny, but it really isn't. It's just BAD. Raft (West's first cinematic co-star) has a brief bit in an elevator and Regis Philbin of all people has a cameo as a reporter. This was based on one of her decades-old plays.