Adapted from Algis Budrys excellent short story "The Master of the Hounds," TO KILL A CLOWN is an oddity of revenge cinema from the early 70s. While it serviceably handles the man vs. man with dogs scenario, it unfortunately never achieves full audience involvement due to unsympathetic leads.<br /><br />Despite being based on a short story, the material here is still painfully underdeveloped with major dramatic portions of the story left untouched. Director George Bloomfield has altered Budrys' source story by making Alda's character a Vietnam vet (in the short story he was a WWII POW) and the young couple hippies. This dynamic of the war monger vs. the peaceniks should have offered some interesting social commentary but Bloomfield does nothing with it. It also doesn't help that our hero Timothy (Lamberts) is a really annoying hippie prone to acting like a immature child and talking about his career path as a clown (another variation from the story and source for the odd title).<br /><br />Bloomfield was also obviously inspired by the previous year's STRAW DOGS and more interested in making a film like that. Not only is his lead Lamberts a dead ringer for Dustin Hoffman from that film, but Bloomfield changes the end of the story (where the crippled Major and his dogs invade the couple's house via underground tunnels) to outside assault that segues into a fistfight where the peaceful become the punishers. But Bloomfield is no Peckinpah and the end result is not as powerful as it could be.<br /><br />If CLOWN does have any merit, it is for the pre-M*A*S*H performance of Alan Alda as the deranged Vietnam vet. At first he is subtilely creepy with his awkward questions and affable laugh but as the film progresses he becomes more unhinged. The scenes where orders Timothy around like a soldier are very creepy and by the end he is just a notch below raving lunatic (his speech about how buttons are the foundation of America is a keeper). In fact, all of the acting in this is good with fine turns by Danner (who looks so much like her daughter that it is creepy) and Lamberts despite the bad characters they are saddled with. The two Doberman Pinschers are also quite good and deliver all of their lines perfectly.