What the hell is this? Beverly D'Angelo? John Ritter? Guillermo from Weeds? What, are you people lost? This is Exploitation Country. Nowhere may or may not be one of those modern-day "indy" films, but anyone who's seen Gregg Araki's previous film, The Doom Generation, knows that this guy caters to the B-movie crowd. It may be the 90's, but Gregg Araki keeps the Drive-in alive with his Generation-X-ploitation.<br /><br />We follow the gloomy shenanigans of a whiny fellow named Dark (James Duval). Dark is depressed because Beverly D'Angelo wants him to get out of the shower. Dark is depressed because his ex-girlfriend only wants to have sex with him (no-strings-attatched), although, she has a new girlfriend named Lucifer. Dark is depressed because he has has a crush on some kid named Montgomery. Dark is depressed because his friends think playing hide & seek on Ecstacy is a good idea. Dark is depressed because he's always IT. Dark is depressed because he thinks he's dying and/or the world is going to end. And I would imagine Dark is depressed because he thinks no one understands him. Oh yeah, plus there's an Alien about, and Dark is also a little down about that, you know how it is.<br /><br />Party at Juji Fruit's tonight!!!<br /><br />Nowhere is a mean-spirited, yet trippy look into the lives of confused, drug-addicted over-sexed L.A. teenagers. We follow Dark, his ex, Mel, Lucifer, Montgomery, Jordan Ladd, Ryan Phillipe, Kelly from Married With Chldren, some dude from Bay Watch, and a bulimic named Egg, as they anticipate tonight's big shin-dig. Why everyone cares so much about this party, I'll never know, the whole movie is sex, drugs, and rock n' roll from reel to reel. With all the fun to be had, there's still a strong apocalyptic feel in the air, like something bad is going to happen, which Dark finds depressing. It seems like everywhere you turn, there's either someone who is famous, someone who used to be famous, or someone who will be famous, it's just weird. For a movie like this, it's just all the more surreal. I mean really, the middle kids from The Brady Bunch, and Mrs. Garrett from Facts Of Life is certainly the last thing I expect in my B-cinema, or at least pretty close.<br /><br />Despite the A-stars, this is a real trash-fest. A raunchy, dismal B-Dramedy that would no doubt make John Waters proud. Oh yeah, and Rose Mcgowan drops by for a visit, which is always fun. Certainly a more colorful movie than The Doom Generation, not to mention more daytime scenes, but Nowhere is just as Dark, some might say darker. These movies introduced a new generation to the world of low-budget exploitation films, and I wish there was more of them. For anyone who has seen both Nowhere and The Doom Generation, you may have noticed that it would be a much better fit if the titles were switched, or is that just me? 8/10