I really liked this film, pretty much because of how "out there" it is. Gregg Araki created a trippy tale of teen angst that is so over-dramatized that it actually makes you feel drunk while you're watching it. The aliens were a nice addition, but certainly a very random one. I probably haven't seen this much drug content involving teens since I saw the film "Kids". Trust me, "Nowhere" is a movie worth watching. Expect to be feel weird after you have viewed "Nowhere", because you most likely will feel very strange-- talk about Beverly Hills 90210 on acid. The whole atmosphere of the film is reminiscent of such dystopian society displayed in movies such as "A Clockwork Orange", but I'm sure it probably wasn't intended to be that way. "Nowhere" has it all, including its share of sexual tensions between all of the characters, as well as random outbursts of insanity (at one point involving a character being brutally killed with a can of Campbell's tomato soup). "Nowhere" just might frighten you at the most unexpected time, and even if you aren't frightened or disturbed, you'll still be thinking "WHAT THE HELL WAS THAT?". Beneath all of its extreme oddities, the movie is pretty much a coming-of-age film that depicts the liberal youth's urge to party like an animal on a Friday night. This, of course, is no regular Friday night, for the "party of the year" is supposed to take place. Some party it was, for it was near-literally the end of the world for some characters. You've got to love the touches of strange science fiction to "Nowhere", and of course I am referring to the trippy (and corny in a cool way) alien abductions. Also, here's a word for you that relates to the movie: bisexuality. Yes, bisexual tensions, and just enough of them for you not to say "I can't take this anymore". Despite relationship dramas throughout the movie,"Nowhere" stays away from too many romance factors to stay true to its rather avant-garde-esquire nature, which I found very pleasing. As far-fetched and messed-up the movie sounds, "Nowhere" is an entertaining movie experience. Before you watch any other Gregg Araki movies (such as the amazing "Mysterious Skin"), watch "Nowhere" because it relates to his other films and really gives you a good idea of his film-making style. Watch "Nowhere", chances are you'll think it was worth the time.