Horsemen is everything that I hate about movies. It is ruined by poor imaginations. It actually has potential, it has a good plot, and has cast that draws you into it. But the lack of intelligence in this movie is befuddling. The script is written to (what it seems) be able to let 2 year old understand what is going on. Some of the most obvious things are said numerous times and it becomes repetitive and annoying.<br /><br />Next, some may disagree, but I liked what the plot had going. Although it seems like a copy cat of many other movies, I was totally enticed from the get go, starting with Denis Quaid(who plays Detective Aidan Breslin), who is called to the crime scene where he finds a bag of teeth and the message "COME AND SEE" written on 4 trees surrounding. You are automatically thrown into mystery and suspense with the first body being discovered. As the movie progresses, you become more and more confused by the plot. Numerous story lines emerge, and how it all ties together is so poorly executed, I was angered. The writers should be ashamed! In the end, we discover the white horse (final horsemen, ring leader, etc) is (who knew?!? oh wait..I did!) Quaid's son. The quiet, angry teen who is obviously really upset by his dad's ignorance. Not only was the twist so predictable, the boy doesn't even fulfill what he wanted to. He is saved by, of course, Quaid (dad) in a not-so-emotional scene where his dad yet again promises to be there for him in the future. Look what it took to make him notice! But really, do the writers expect us to believe that his son was involved in this, murdered numerous people, and his dad is telling him everything will be OK? And the kid just agrees to it. "Yeah dad, I believe you this time. I just killed a bunch of people and am possibly insane, but hey- I'll take you up on that offer for that weekly visit to eat! How about it?" So that's basically the conclusion. And it leaves you feeling like the writers questioned your intelligence and angered that you wasted your time on this terrible film.