Warning: This review contains spoilers. This snippet of reality t.v. isn't about polygamy in the truest sense of the word. It's about a man (Brian) who admittedly craves sexual variety and works overtime to rationalize his lust into something respectable. While married to his first wife, Pam, he has an affair with Kathy who bears him a son out of wedlock. His cons Pam into accepting Kathy and her son as a part of their family. Pam, admits that she is very angry and resentful of Kathy when she first moves into their home, but now, 18 years later, she loves her and can't imagine life without her. Enter Denise, the woman Brian has met in his Ph.d classes--Brian the psychologist wannabe who tells his aging mother whom he blames for his need to have a variety of sexual partners "You can call me doctor, now." Take a beat to ponder the irony of this self-involved sociopath dishing out relationship advice. Though she is attractive, Denise appears older than both Brian and his two other "wives." His motivation for choosing her becomes apparent when he admits that Denise has made the payments on his house that kept them out of foreclosure. Denise's motivation becomes apparent in her love-starved gazing at him coupled with her deer-in-the-headlights pleading for acceptance from both Kathy and Pam. No surprise that neither of his current women like or want Denise in the mix. It is difficult to feel anything but contempt for a continually pouting Kathy who doesn't like being in the very position in which she placed Pam so many years before. Foolishly, Denise appears to have tried to buy her way into their lives because she's so desperate for love and for a family, but it also appears that she likes the role of favorite woman, lounging around while the others are cooking and cleaning. She's clearly there for sex with Brian and is accepting the package deal to get to him. The argument about being an family unsoiled by divorce as a rationale for their lifestyle is a smoke screen. These are single parents. Brian is out riding his motorcycle when things don't go his way. My advice: Don't waste your time on this show about a man, his passive wife and his shack jobs. He's just a user. If you're looking for a peepinto real polygamy, read Carolyn Jessup's book "Escape." It paints a disturbing picture of what polygamy really is and why it persists. This is just a show about a guy who's trying to satisfy his ID 24/7 and three women who sadly feel he is the best that they can do--well, that is until Pam divorces him and remarries, Kathy is separated from him and who knows what happened to Denise. Once he didn't need her money any more, he kicked her to the curb. He is apparently working his charm on a new woman to whom he became engaged.