If you have read the other three reviews of this documentary, then yeah, mine is pretty much the same. I have several things to address about this program: 1. Who in their right mind would put themselves on TV engaging in an ILLEGAL activity? While watching this show, I kept thinking, "Wait, is there a state where polygamy isn't illegal?" So I checked, and no, there is no state where polygamy is legal. I have to wonder if there were any cops around that part of Texas watching the show.<br /><br />2. Apparently it wasn't a secret because one of the husband's friends knew about it and said that others in town did, too. Um, so, do they not have laws in that town? Or police? Or judges? Or anyone with a sense of decency? 3. What woman in her right mind would share her husband with another woman? Especially when it was him who brought in the extra wife, anyway. I found myself wanting them to gang up on him. He ASSIGNED them chores like he assigned his kids chores. And there were so many passive-aggressive things that came out of his mouth. At an anniversary dinner (for all three wives) he made the newest wife try a bite of something because one of the others did. Then when picking out a ring for that same wife, he wanted her to pick out a ring that he liked. And at the end *SPOILERS* when the other two wives wanted her gone, all he did was get up, pat her on the head, and leave. Followed by Wife #2 who was undoubtedly the most selfish of them all. This guy was not extremely good-looking, nor was he even that nice. At one point he even said that it would be easier to have no wives at all. SO WHY DID HE WANT THREE WIVES IN THE FIRST PLACE? 4. As was said in another review, I saw very little parent-child interaction that was shown in a loving and fun way. Everything seemed very civil between the wives and between the wives and husband. The husband was constantly on his children's cases about something. And the adults were too busy dealing with their own problems to even talk to their kids about how they were feeling.<br /><br />The kids, in fact, didn't really talk about how they felt living with two "mothers" and then three. Apart from a few passing comments about it being fine or some other generic comment, they didn't really delve into it. In fact, the whole program focused on the adults' feelings about a new woman in the house.<br /><br />I'm really surprised at TLC for doing this program let alone airing it. And even more surprisingly, there seem to be a lot of people who are fine with it. I just have to pose this question for all of the guys out there: how would you feel if your wife had three husbands? Probably not very good. Stuff like this makes me wonder if we as a society have lost almost all of our values. Have we all grown so cynical as to think things like this are fine? I personally don't think these things are fine.<br /><br />TLC: think before you make a program.