My Husband's Three Wives is a documentary about a man named Brian Wachtendorf and his family, which consists of two wives and six children. He is legally married to Pam but because the state of Texas believes firmly in monogamy, he has had to resort to private ceremonies to 'marry' his second wife, Kathy. Besides the fact that the husband is overbearing and arrogant, the family is kind of happy. The wives are friends, the children are...well, the children are confused. Not that the adults care, of course, they're all too busy dealing with one another. As a matter of fact, one child was raised not knowing which woman was his mother. But such is typical in everyday life, no? Anyway, chaos ensues when a third woman shows up on their doorstep; Brian's third lover and soon-to-be 'wife', Denise. Suddenly there is tension in the house and the curse words fly...not between the people on screen, but between the viewer and the TV. If they weren't flying already.<br /><br />Bigamy is resented by a fair amount of people. Therefore I assume it's safe to say that TLC aired this trash to allow a glimpse into the life of a bigamist/polygamist and allow us to judge for ourselves. Me? I'll stick with one or none, thanks. Call me close-minded, but having more than one significant other is adultery, no matter how much you claim to love all of them. Besides, it is quite clear that Brian does not care for any of his three wives. He cares only for himself, first and foremost, and this is apparent in the show. He has a cult-like presence and orders his submissive spouses around as if they were dogs. The entire family is completely dysfunctional and quite revolting (not the individuals themselves, but the situation they have placed themselves in). {{--Possible Spoiler: In once instance, he sits his wives down and told them how to behave, telling Denise that he would end their relationship if she didn't obey him.--}}<br /><br />Brian Wachtendorf also has a book out, in which he apparently talks about some criminal activity (I hear he's quite the idiot). Anyway, my suggestion to you is to not watch this unless you feel like getting frustrated, angry, and have something soft and/or squishy on which to vent your anger once the show is finished.