THE BEAST MUST DIE begins with some of the worst music for this film as you can image (other than Polka music). This twangy techno-70s music is just terrible and seems all wrong for a werewolf film. And, once the film gets starts, the sound track continues to blare--with music way too loud and invasive for the film. Rarely do I ever complain so much about a soundtrack, but it just hits you like a brick when the film begins.<br /><br />The film begins with an exciting chase scene--so exciting that you can perhaps ignore the dopey music. It is reminiscent to the film THE MOST DANGEROUS GAME, as a man is being tracked by hunters. However, the hunting ground is very high tech--with motion detectors and microphones everywhere. It turns out that this weird setup was created by a rich guy so that he can invite a group of people there in order to determine which of them is a werewolf!! How, exactly, you'll have to wait to see.<br /><br />The rest of the film plays a bit like "Ten Little Indians" (also made into the movie AND THE THERE WERE NONE). In other words, it's a bit of a waiting game until ultimately the true werewolf reveals itself. However, despite an interesting story idea, it's undone by a few dumb touches. For example, just when the rich guy is about to kill the wolf, his wife inexplicably stops him from shooting it--even though this wolf is tearing apart their doggy. The other dumb thing is that although this guy is supposed to be such an amazing hunter, he keeps missing--even at point blank range. He's not the only one--two others do the same thing. These moments are just plain sloppy and do so much to undo the good of the film. Plus, with all the rich guy's money, why doesn't he just lock everyone into cages and see exactly who is the werewolf?! The only big plus is the very ending--it's pretty cool.<br /><br />The bottom line is that I hate films where characters must act stupidly to make the film work. It's a sign of lousy writing--and this film manages to take a very good idea and ruin it. It is watchable, but just barely.