I watched this movie because I'm pretty big Michael Cera fan and really nothing he's been in so far has been terrible... however, this movie looks like it was begging not to be watched. With a title like Extreme Movie, an embarrassing cover, and the fact that it's a Blockbuster Exclusive, honestly doesn't give it very much appeal. However, the cast seemed pretty good, the directors made a hilarious spoof movie (I loved Not Another Teen Movie), and the writers were impressive, many big name Saturday Night Live writers. <br /><br />Even with all that hidden talent though, the movie turns out to be exactly how the DVD case made it seem... embarrassing. For the most part very, very low brow humor with not very spectacular timing or very good taste. The movie for some reason plays like a typical American Pie storyline with sketches randomly thrown in. Some of these sketches made me chuckle, but for the most part, every sketch went on way, way too long. <br /><br />Michael Cera's sketch though actually had me laughing for a few hours after I had already watched the movie. It might seemed a little biased because he was the reason I watching the movie, but really his sketch was the only one that was casted perfectly. He's only in the movie for maybe ten minutes, if even that, and the first couple of minutes really nothing happened. However, if you're not sick of Michael Cera's awkwardness yet, then it's used perfectly here. <br /><br />Other than that, Jamie Kennedy's sketch made me went to take a shower after watching it. Really disgusting. Thought I was watching porn... actually the majority of the movie kind of feels that way... Matthew Lillard's portions of the film were incredibly unfunny. He basically just sits in a chair and throws at you the old sex advice jokes you've heard from so many standups in the past. Honestly, this isn't a movie I would recommend. If you've been enjoying the movies Michael Cera has been putting out... then probably skip this one. It's really not worth waiting forty minutes from him to appear only to disappear moments later.