Talking about success of 36 China Town is also talking about repeated success of its directors duo Abbas Mustan who started off as directors in Hindi films more than 15 years ago with a flop Agneekaal (1990). Such a high success rate that is increasingly getting rare in the Hindi film industry is a miracle in itself. The reason that I can think of is with each of their film they reinvented themselves. Therefore, in this musical masala thriller flick, their audience not just getting a taste of a regular Abbas-Mustan stuff but something extra and therefore that bit of surprise element is always there. Like always, their scripts are very ordinary and plot quite common, but their presentation, treatment and handling make all the difference. In this flick for example, they crafted a thriller that is the core but as usual is not great and neither is their suspense but surely this is not a genre film and therefore they bring the elements of comedy (the highlight of the film), Romance, Foot-tapping Music as well as sufficient skin show make all the difference. Therefore we have Kareena, Payal Rohatgai, Tanushree Dutta, Ishaa Koppikar, Sambhavana Sheth all displaying either their legs or their cleavage, the male counterpart is taken care of solely by the model-turned-actor Upen Patel (a confident debut though need to work hard on his dialog accent). Also, direction flaws are galore-How can a body of a 6" female be fitted into a luggage of 3"?, How can the same luggage thrown inside the A/C. compartment of a running train that too from the train's window?, how can two people see that a tunnel is approaching while traveling in the same train? and how come police not able to find passport of Kareena Kapoor at the murder site when someone has dropped it there. But come on, how many of us really care for such silly logics? Dialogues by Anurag Prapanna & Jitendra Parmar definitely tickle your funny bone at places. Himesh Reshammiya is rocking here too with another hit soundtrack under his belt. Editing by AM's Bhai is crisp as usual. Imagine, a whodunit flick which is treated in a lighter vein, with lot of drama but no melodrama plus hardly any action, is what makes this fare, a surprising watchable stuff, is all can be said about the film..