This movie was actually a letdown for me. The only thing that kept it thriving were the actors. Actually, only certain actors, such as: Jarrad Blancard, Seth Green, Ben Heller, and of course, Tim Curry. It could have been so much more compared to what it had shown. I understand that King's novel was over 1,000 pages long, and the writers couldn't fit all of those details in one movie, but I still feel strongly that they could've replaced some of the crappy scenes in the movie, with some of the horrific parts in the book. For example, they could've kept Patrick Hockstetter's death (killed by flying leeches) accurate in the film. I don't really see any reason to change how he died. Other parts, like the Smoke-Hole Ritual, those parts with the infamous house on Neibolt Street, and the part in the novel with Bill, Richie, and Georgie's album, were completely cut out of the film, without any recognition whatsoever.One of those parts could've been put in place of the cafeteria scene in the film, because in the novel, Richie didn't even see the werewolf in the school basement. <br /><br />Many of the Losers' characteristics in the novel weren't as clear in the film. For example, Stan Uris' obsession for order and cleanliness. That characteristic was kind of mild compared to the novel's description. Oh well. This movie was still very terrifying to me, and it's one of my favorite films, as well as my favorite novel. Also about how Eddie broke out of his "mama's boy" shell and became stronger by being friends with the other Losers. This wasn't as unclear as Stan's cleanliness issue, but it was still a little blurry. Mister Richie "Trashmouth" Tozier's personality. This really made me mad because, after Stan, Richie was my favorite character. In the novel, both eleven year old Richie, and adult Richie were pretty brave. (Saying things like: "Yeah, hilarious for me too, after we blow your f***ing head off, baby" to It taking the shape of a huge Paul Bunyon statue.) In the movie, however, they made adult Richie (Anderson) kind of a pussy, with his constant complaining and wanting to go home.<br /><br />In closing, if you read the book, I suggest you not see the movie, because it will disappoint you a lot, as it did me. If you haven't read the book, then go read it because there are many gaps that the movie created, that the novel will fill.