I'm not sure what I was expecting from this film. I suppose I did want to see some schoolgirls and some chains. And I sort of got both. There are maybe 2 scenes with chains, but they are like dog leashes, which is pretty silly. And after forcing myself to finish the abortive The Forest, by the same director,(and yes, I foolishly purchased The Forest, curse my hide), I have no idea why I wanted to see this. I read that this was up on the banned list for a while, not sure if it really was banned or what. Apparently the title Schoolgirls in Chains was substituted with Abducted, but some censors still found copies with the original title and flipped. Anyway... What you have here is your basic Psycho rip-off with a little Of Mice and Men thrown in. Two brothers, one a sort of regular guy(who sleeps with his mother, OK there is no sleeping going on) and another guy who is a simpleton who likes to play children's games, live in a house where they keep girls they have abducted under their home in a cellar. There aren't a lot of sex games, as one might expect with a title like this, but there is one rape scene which is rather mild and brief. Mainly, you have the idiot brother, John, playing games like Hide n Seek or Follow the Leader with the girls as the damsels plot for ways to escape. Of course, I was waiting the whole time for the "pay-off" which would come in the form of some good revenge on the part of the girls. Unfortunately, that didn't really happen. Frank, the "regular fellow," does get his comeuppance, but by his own hand, leaving John presumably to be a ward of the state again. Strictly speaking for myself, because I'm strange, I would have thought a much better ending would involve the latter-day heroine, Bonnie, and her boyfriend going into the upstairs bedroom and finding Frank and John in bed with their mother's dead body, or Frank dressed as his mother with John next to him and Frank talking like their mother. Or just shotgun the lot of them. <br /><br />In short, you really have to have nothing better to watch than to sit through this one. Minimal nudity, no gore(except for a shot or two of a decaying body), sloooow pacing, bad acting, no violence to speak of, etc. But....it's still a lot better than The Forest.