Before I get into this film, I'd just like to comment on the last few minutes, when little Edmund enters into his fantasy world of singing daisies, talking birds and day-glo skies for the first time (can I take some of what he's having)? Can you say WORST USE OF CARTOON SPLICED WITH LIVE ACTION EVER?! The black lines around the boy and the difference between his movements and the animation is so bad you expect to spot a blue screen any minute. Some advice: only attempt this difficult feat if you have the budget and the technical know-how. Roger Rabbit got away with it. Cool World survived by the skin of it's teeth. This, however is just embarrassing. Attempting it on a movie which isn't backed by the big bucks is like trying to purchase an engagement ring for 10p... you'll only end up with a cheap imitation. Seriously, Don Bluth should be ashamed of himself for the whole mess, and after watching how bad the effects are at the end it's almost impossible to remember the rest of the movie. But I'll try.<br /><br />So here we go: A young boy turned into a cat by a wicked Owl, must venture into the the city with his animal friends and locate an escapee rooster from the farm whose crow every morning helped the sun rise. Without him, the weather has turned to torrential rain and darkness, which suits Mr Owl and his buddies to a tee. Only problem is, their rooster buddy has now discovered a new talent for harmonising Elvis Presley-type rock tunes, and his new manager won't let him go because the old miser has been rolling it in cold hard cash ever since. Does THIS sound like the sort of movie you wanna see? If so, then good luck to ya...<br /><br />Mind you, at only 71 minutes long you could do worst things with your life. Going to sleep for instance, or working on your garden (Why do old people find weeding so stimulating?). But still, watching a loud, obnoxious cartoon feature with precious little to interest those over 9 is not really worth a chunk out of your day. Ever heard of Disney? Yeah, they might suck as a company, but they sure have made some quality films over the years. Unfortunately, but rather predictably, Rock-A-Doodle falls well short of those lofty goals. Ask yourself: in a world with Aladdin, Beauty and the Beast, Pinocchio et all... why would you put THIS on instead? How ironic, that in the early 80's, Don Bluth left the Disney stable to set up his own production company, because he felt Walt and co weren't making very good films any more. Having sat through this, Thumbelina and (spit) The Pebble and the Penguin, and I can safely say he has become what he was seeking to avoid. Shame that... 4/10