Plot of "Rock-a-Doodle": A rooster named Chanticleer crows every morning to make the sun come up, only one day the sun rises without him and he leaves the farm in disgrace (this part is based on an obscure play by Edmund Forster). Only it turns out he really WAS responsible for the sunrise and it begins raining nonstop. This causes an evil owl to move to the farm because he wants to live in permanent darkness. A real-life boy, who lives with his real-life family amongst the cartoon animals, knows Chanticleer can bring the sun back and sets out to find him. Only the owl turns out to have magical powers and transforms the real-life boy into a cartoon cat. The cartoon cat then sets out with the other animals into the big city (which is populated by cartoon animals even though the farm has a human family) to find Chanticleer, who has turned into an Elvis parody and is being seduced by a sexy chicken. Meanwhile, back at the farm, the owl has inexplicably grown to the size of a skyscraper and is planning to eat the other animals. Or something. Also, there are evil frogs. <br /><br />If you can read through all that and tie those events together to make any sort of vague sense, be my guest. This is the most nonsensical movie in the history of animation. I watched it countless times as a kid and I don't think I ever knew what was going on, and I just realized I still don't. I don't remember ever liking it, either. <br /><br />However, I was strangely fascinated by the crazy little owl (nephew to the evil magic owl) played by Charles Nelson Reilly, and thought he was the funniest damn thing I had ever seen. I can't explain it, but even now the thought of a tiny owl running around with weapons made out of can-openers and shouting "ANNIHILATION" is hilarious to me. I was so fascinated that I actually did research on Charles Nelson Reilly, so for many years I was the only kid in elementary school with an extensive knowledge of Charles Nelson Reilly trivia and could tell you all his appearances on game shows and stuff. This is the sad effect this movie had on my life, and I deeply regret it.<br /><br />Besides that, it is sort of notable for Glen Campbell's role as Chanticleer/The King and for containing Phil Harris's last role, but anyone over the age of 8 will probably find it extremely tedious and annoying. It has nothing on the classic Disney cartoons.