I only watched this movie for two reasons: 1) it was on sat TV v late at night and I was wide awake working on some emails and 2) I was actually working in Bucharest when this was filmed - it was filmed just near my office in fact. I remember taking a pic of my editor walking thru a bunch of security-uniformed extras as we strolled up the hill for lunch....<br /><br />It really was awful. How could you not make a good action pic when you have: a) a great location. Bucharest post-Cold War (by the way, Romania was not part of the Warsaw Pact - remember the Queen gave Ceaucescu a knighthood - so why plant an atomic bomb there?). There were virtually no scenes of Ceaucescu's mad megalomaniacal city. They may as well not have been on location. Plus they could have shot some scenes up in Transylvania. What a waste. b) Daryl Hannah, still looking gorgeous, but no sexy scenes at all, just farcical groping and snogging, and c) Tom Berenger, a great guy to have in an action movie, and d) Romanian women, the second-best looking women in Europe(after Slovenia).<br /><br />This could have been a wonderful, dark, atmospheric, sexy spy movie, not just a straight to video idiot's action film.<br /><br />I suspect they only made this movie because it was so cheap then to shoot movies in Romania. So it was budget-led. Once you start scrimping, you scrimp on everything and you end up with an humungous flop. The director and writers should shoot himself if they haven't already. The errors and lack of attention to detail or credibility are endless. Does the Romanian air force really paint 'Romanian Air Force' on its planes when Romania has a perfectly good language of its own? Do UN peacekeeping troops really guard prisoners at the ICC in The Haque? I think not - there's no peace to keep. And if the UN really did waste PK troops on this duty, would they garrison it with Croatian forces, to guard an alleged Serbian war criminal? (And you wouldn't have a single Croat there in a mixed force because country troops work together, and oh by the way Croatia is not a UN member country).