Un Posto Ideale Per Uccidere is an exploitation thriller which mixes the laid-back hippie attitudes of the 60s with the permissive approach to cinematic sex and violence of the 70s. It comes from Italian director Umberto Lenzi, at the junction where his career was steering away from adventure and thriller movies and sailing into gorier, more controversial waters. Ultimately Lenzi would offend the world with films like Mangiati Vivi! (a.k.a Eaten Alive), and the notoriously sickening Cannibal Ferox. At least Un Posto Ideale Per Uccidere isn't particularly offensive or nasty – it's just a routine thriller with a splash of sex and nudity, obvious plot developments, a fashionably downbeat ending, and a toe-tapping soundtrack that is blissfully unrelated to the events on screen!<br /><br />Dick (Ray Lovelock) and Ingrid (Ornella Muti) are a young Scandinavian couple travelling around Europe. They pay their way by selling pornographic photos of themselves. Unfortunately for them, their scheme is uncovered by the somewhat unforgiving Italian police and they are instructed to leave Italy at once. On their way to the border, their car runs out of petrol and they are forced to seek help at a large, secluded villa. Here they meet Barbara Slater (Irene Papas), wife of the NATO colonel who owns the villa. Barbara seems edgy and nervous, especially when she finds them attempting to steal her husband's petrol, but nevertheless invites the couple to stay. It becomes increasingly apparent that Barbara is not to be trusted. Her behaviour seems erratic and at one point she seduces Dick. The young couple slowly come to learn that Barbara has an ulterior motive for having them in her home. Seems she recently murdered her husband and has his body stashed in the trunk of his car…. now she plans to frame Dick and Ingrid for her ruthless crime.<br /><br />The film has a few interesting elements and is comparatively subtle by Lenzi's later standards. There is some attempt to set aside time for proper character development, so that the eventual misadventures which befall the protagonists carry a little more weight. The problem is that the characters are rather dull, and the actors aren't really charismatic enough to overcome this. Eugenio Alabiso edits the film quite well, using a variety of flashy techniques to create a sense of atmosphere in several scenes. But again, the central story is too weak and uninvolving – in the end, no amount of flashy editing can overcome the film's pervasive air of dreariness. Once Un Posto Ideale Per Uccidere reaches its glumly depressing climax, one realises that very little has really happened. It is a slow-burning film which doesn't build to anything of note. Collectors of these old Italian exploitation-era movies might find something to hold their interest, as will fans of the stars, but for wider audiences there's not a great deal in the film worth getting excited about.