BEFORE NIGHT FALLS / (2000) ** (out of four)<br /><br />The most I learned from the recent biographical drama "Before Night Falls" was that the Cuban poet Reinaldo Arena was persecuted for being gay. Based on the memoirs of the same named and directed by the painter Julian Schnabel, whose "Basquiat" was innovative and harrowing. Here Schnabel is focused and artful, but cannot really accomplish much from the tedious script co written by Cunningham O'Keefe, Lazaro Gomez Carriles, and himself. Being a member of a screenwriting team of three, one would think Schnabel would have been more insightful and entertaining, but instead he helps construct a film that examines areas of the writer's life that should have been left out, and does not achieve clarity on the issue of Arenas' poetic talent. This production is a major disappointment.<br /><br />"Before Night Falls" looks into the entire life of Reinaldo Arenas, but never actually introduces a character whom with the audience can relate. The story portrays the poet and novelist who was driven to homelessness and cruel persecution due to his art and sexual status. As a young man he ran away from home to join Castro's rebels, but was later imprisoned and punished harshly for his work and homosexuality. Javier Bardem portrays Reinaldo Arenas with a believable, convincing edge, but lacks the intensity and energy to bring the notable and potentially intriguing character to life. The supporting cast is not much help, concluding with several American actors, such as Johnny Depp and Sean Penn, with brief cameos.<br /><br />If Julian Schnabel wanted to examine a picture about sexual freedom then he took the wrong path. The film is not suggestive, and does not tease us with the character's quaint homosexuality. Instead we receive various sequences of extended male nudity. There is nothing interesting about watching naked men and viewing genitalia; nothing timely or erotic, just graphic and explicit. There is also nothing edgy or controversial with such nudity; people are not shocked or attracted to films just because they are not afraid to photograph under the belt, literally. Such aggressiveness exploits audacity, but the whole concept of the character being gay is done way over the top.<br /><br />"Before Night Falls" does have a few nice elements. The mood and setting of the film appear authentic and honest, although often tranquil and unsettling. The use of grainy archival footage is a successful touch. There are also some wonderful images and cinematography. I also enjoyed how the movie stays focused on one central character, and there are no obvious plot distractions by unnecessary sub-plots. However, those variables are not enough to rescue the awkward story; it is just not very involving. I did not care about any of the characters. A shame, because "Before Night Falls" should have been a real event.