Could have been one of the better romantic comedies, marquee actors, a somewhat clever story line and a stock but well played plot twist at the end. Could have been, but wasn't because Meg Ryan is a one woman wrecking crew from beginning to end. Her character idea is clever, but Meg Ryan plays her like a chipmunk on crank - constantly hyper-energetic, late sixties/early seventies cliché spewing, hippy-trippy-chippy. We're to believe this unbelievably annoying person attracts men of all ages to her like a mythical siren and women adore her as well. Reality check Hollywood; men run for the exits when they encounter women like Marty Durand who all but has a sandwich board sign declaring her bi-polar/border line psychotic personality disorder and women loathe self-centered attention seeking vapidness that she represent. Less than half way through the movie my wife said she was hoping for a plot twist that involved the gun toting FBI son shooting this insipid twit just to shut her up - I enthusiastically concurred! As bad as the Marty Durand character was, Meg Ryan playing her only made her more unbearable. Hot, she's so hot, so so so hot Marty Duran is so freaking hot or so every single character in the movie tells us, again and again and again and again and again and again please god make them stop - prompting me to ask is everyone from the casting director on down is utterly blind? Meg Ryan looks horrifically bad.<br /><br />If she had attempted to squeeze one more droplet of collagen into her fat, drooping under their own weight, lips I have no doubt they would have exploded all over her botox hardened face the moment she uttered her first line. There are few things more disturbing than watching someone play chipper and happy when their eyebrows and forehead are frozen stiff.<br /><br />Yes Meg you're thin and in shape and that's great, but do us all and yourself a favor by laying off the facial injections and try aging gracefully.<br /><br />A truly bad casting choice and a horrible performance killed this thing out of the gate.