I started watching Hollywood movies 6 years back, watched some of the greatest classics and blockbusters of all times. Was amazed and awestruck that how was Hollywood capable of churning out such amazing stuff with such amazing consistency...but after seeing "Bad boys" and a few other disappointing movies, I realized that Hollywood too, wasn't perfect. Coming to the movie, the plot was an oft repeated one of two cops pairing up, both different in personas (infact diametrically opposite), and still great pals, one has a wife and kids and other is single and hot, the usual clichés. But that's not all that is bad about the movie..., there is more-the silly dialogues, lousy work by the lead pair, the female lead has no clue what to say or do, she often keeps mumbling and muttering in the background. Above all, the scenes are illogical and can't be attributed to be the actions of sane people. Martin Lawrence does ok in his role, but maybe he could have done better if he hadn't tried to fake that dialogue delivery style which looked very irritating and totally lacking in humor. Comic timing and wisecracks have to be differentiated from silly mannerisms, and this movie is a big example of that. Will Smith, is a little more subdued...but isn't able to emote much or come up with funny stuff. Téa Leoni has no role in the movie, she acts in the craziest, most insensible ways, invites trouble each time(if it was real life, she would have been killed the first time she tried to pull off those stupid stunts of hers), not to mention the male leads who too are guilty of this!!! The wife too is shown as an irrational human being who would make unjustified demands on his apparently busy husband. The movie is about the most irrational and stupid people we are ever going to come across. They do all sorts of crazy and suicidal things at the silliest pretext and dumbest logic!!! I hope there are no people of such kind anywhere in the universe. About the director, he must realize that a movie can be comic even though it has intelligent people in it, everything doesn't have to be so dumb. Besides, showing African Americans in such clichéd roles just tarnishes their image. THE ONLY GOOD THING ABOUT THE MOVIE is the action scenes, and occasional good comedy. So, my advice is, if u have better things to do in life, don't watch it. If u really have to watch a movie, then rent some old favorite rather than go for it. GOD SAVE YOU.