This is one of the few movies that will actually prompt me to shout at the TV. <br /><br />I was willing to be patient with a Les Mis movie adaptation, because the novel is sooooo lengthy and detailed. But they just completely twist everyone's personalities around. <br /><br />I put up with the characterization errors (the characterization that made the novel so wonderful) but then I turned it off when I saw that they'd made Valjean the mayor when he couldn't read or write. It specifically says in the novel that he learned how to write/read in prison. Again, I wouldn't care, but I don't quite see how any town could flourish under an illiterate mayor. <br /><br />Here is what all bothered me: - I saw people praise this movie because it didn't change Valjean as drastically, i.e. he sometimes becomes violent and hits people. Valjean was NEVER violent. He was freaking put into prison for stealing a loaf of bread to feed his sister's starving family. Whenever he attempted to escape, it did not involve violence. Valjean would never, ever, hit anyone--prison made him full of bitterness and hatred, but not violent. - Javert is NOT sadistic. He's certainly not a very likable guy, but his personal experiences gave him a very rigid sense of justice. - Liam Neeson is just too young to play Valjean, I think. They should have aged him up a bit, especially during his stint as Monsieur Madeleine - I also don't think Liam Neeson looked powerful enough. Remember, the man lifted a cart and scaled a wall and bent prison bars. - Fantine and Valjean never had anything between them. She was a little too busy, y'know, dying. - Marius as a political activist is a strange and horrible thought. - Les Mis has many stories inside of it, not just Javert vs. Valjean. - Enjolras is a necessary character - ABC is pronounced "Ah Bay Say," it's a pun - Eponine isn't entirely necessary, but the movie would have been more enjoyable with her - Cosette is not a teenage rebel without a cause who throws a tantrum when she does not get her way - Valjean would sooner hit himself than hit Cosette <br /><br />I could go on, but I won't. It isn't just the novel mistakes. It's just a very boring and stuffy movie. As one reviewer I saw put it: "You keep itching for someone to burst into song." The characters aren't endearing at all in the movie; I didn't fall in love with Valjean like I did in the novel. I didn't cry over Fantine having to sell her hair and teeth and locket. When you can't really like any character in a movie, you have a big problem.