Many of you are familiar with the feeling when after watching a film (or midway through it) you think that this was a complete waste of time and money. I almost got this feeling after watching this film. This film has very little in terms of a story line or a plot (which you can get from the IMDb summary, so let me not reiterate it). It does not take much effort to figure out what happens in the end.<br /><br />The main themes of this film (e.g. romantic love, family loyalty, sacrifice) have been better explored in many other Hindi films. A substantial portion of this film comprises of various ceremonies (e.g. marriage) and associated songs. I found this mind-numbing. The songs are repetitive and in fact tunes from a previous Rajshri film (Maine Pyar Kiya) can be heard in at least one of these songs (I have to watch this film again to be more specific, but I would rather be corrected than suffer through it again). The actors do justice to their roles, which is not saying much, given these roles. Mainstream Hindi films in recent decades have neither been very realistic nor critical, but they (at least the good ones) while being entertaining, have embedded some understanding and critique of the larger social context. For example, films of Amitabh have tried to show the larger forces that produce crime and the virtues of religious tolerance. This film, while being somewhat of a fable of morality (about love, family ties etc.) is very far removed from social reality – everything (people, families etc.) is made of honey and sugar – nothing in common with the real India.<br /><br />Some people have told me that this is a great film because it is family entertainment - no violence or sex. If this is true (and I think fans of Madhuri would disagree), I don't see why a film meant for intelligent families (adults and children) should be considered good for this reason. Then, why don't we watch only TV programs meant for children? I now come to the one redeeming feature. This film was a huge hit despite all the above problems. This made me think – what does this success reflect about our (Indian) society? I give this film 1 out of 10 for provoking my thoughts in this direction.