The highlight of the first ten minutes, John Wayne is serenading his prisoners, George Kennedy is a well groomed, neatly presented bad guy who snarls with the best of them. I kept waiting for this turd to get better. I knew I was in trouble when all the actors were wearing the cleanest, neatly pressed dirty clothes I ever seen in a western since 1934. And it was mighty white of John Wayne to show that it's okay to treat Native Americans with respect, as long as the Indian gets killed in the last reel. But, as I was coming to grips with the compassion the producers had to cast Gary Grimes after this flick, lead me to thinking about those good IL' days of Watergate and the dis grace the Republicans revealed themselves to be. Too bad they haven't noticeably changed for the humanitarian good of Americans since. <br /><br />I had a bad case of the runs and a fever when a 'friend' brought this flick by hoping it would make me feel better. I have to wonder if anyone 'camped out' to see this one on opening day back in 1973! Seriously, this would have been a great 'drive in' make out flick back in the day. But, now to sit there for 103 minutes, guts churning and bubbling was bad enough, But to have the Duke insult my intelligence in the last three seconds, of what I figured out in the first ten minutes: "Don't Rob Banks!"...at least not where the Duke is around...I mean 'Cahill: Republican Dumb Arse'. But, I give this tripe two stars for the opportunity to reflect on America in the 70's,well, the summer of 1973 to be specific. <br /><br />Going to the movies as a teenager in 1973 was an escape from the day to daily pre-empting regular re-run TV shows with the Watergate hearings. It turned out that 'drive-in's without your parents as a teen in 1973 was nookie haven if you played your hand right. Drive In's showed these wild stupid 'sexploitation' flix back then. Parents, no matter how liberal, would never allow their teens to borrow the car to take their date to go to a drive in to see 'Savage Sisters' double billed with 'Super Chick'. But, if Johnny ask ma and pop to borrow the car to go see John Wayne's apple pie at the Drive In. Well, John Wayne was a trust-able 'drive-in' teenage sitter, from a parental point of view. Of course it would have doubled with something else like ...maybe 'Pocket Money', no Newman's a sex symbol and way too liberal an much too humanitarian to be billed with John Wayne. Maybe 'The Train Robbers'. Hmmm, to totality of possibilities seem endless of a John Wayne double feature at the Drive In, especially after sneaking in to see 'The Harrad Experiment' the week before! The orgy of fun, fun fun 'til our daddy takes the t-bird away at the Stateline Drive In with the right people to engage in such wild sexcapdes such as car hopping, knob bobbing to a spit shine polish, flower tasting sometimes we'd even play pok'er! So, what's to be learned and realized? The Republicans can bring some bad stuff our way, but, it is up to US to decide how best to deal with it. And if there don't seem like there ain't no silver lining to the dark cloud, it is up to US to be with like minded people to become the silver lining itself. But the main thing I came away from this movie with, because we live in a relative universe, one can't know a good film until they see a number of bad flicks. I thank John Wayne for having the guts to release this picture with a message, as heavy handed as it is. And I forgave my friend for wasting my time, but I still have the runs.