Six months after I saw this movie I saw Chalte Chalte. Rumors had it that the two movies were similar. Yes the concept was similar yet the movies are completely different. This movie lies above Chalte Chalte. This movie is good at a pace. The biggest problem in the Chalte Chalte was it's pace. The storyline in this movie is just as good as Chalte Chalte, but direction is ten times better here. However, Chalte Chalte had terrible direction. This movie's direction is just above average. Reason being is no problem is being solved or for that matter started. Reasons why the marriage is falling apart are for immaturity of Vivek's character which was something Rani already hated from the beginning. However, the movie still is very good, and one wouldn't realize flaws unless you go deep into the movie like me. Rani Mukherjee is much more beautiful in the Chalte Chalte, yet gives a more charming performance here (looks aren't everything). Her husky voice works very well for her fight scenes. Vivek Oberoi is also good. He isn't the lover boy type though I have to give him credit for trying. While Chalte Chalte had more of a commercial film feeling, this movie is more like an art film. I am not a huge fan of art films, but don't get me wrong, that's just me. The songs were pretty good though I found them to be a little (not too much) overrated. Millions of people I know love the title song yet it didn't appeal to me. It's a pretty good song. My favorite song was Chori Pe Chori, and luckily the rap portions are kept to a minimum in the movie, otherwise I cringe every time I hear them on the soundtrack. It is a continuation of Sharara (with HOT Shamita Shetty), and sadly got unnoticed due to its dumb rap. Chalka Chalka Re is very nice song, and it's picturization works very well. Aye Udi Udi Udi is one of my favorite songs and there isn't much to say about its music video. O Humdum Soniyo Re could've been a good danced, but is just left to the background. Then Chupke Se is another good song while Naina Milake didn't appeal to me. To end this comment is that I will recommend to watch this movie, but you'll need to know the story.