Making a horror comedy that simultaneously is funny AND suspenseful is pretty much the hardest thing to accomplish in cinema. Only the truly great directors like, say, Sam Raimi ("The Evil Dead") can pull this off, so don't expect a new guy in the business to succeed. Fortunately for writer/director/producer Tony Shyu, he isn't overly pretentious and does never at one point attempt to make his film look like a genuine horror production. He merely puts the emphasis on the comedy factors, and although not always equally successful, at least he manages to keep "Tequila Body Shots" endurable. The film starts off as a typical high-school comedy, in the style of "American Pie", with stereotypical teenage characters that only have sex and booze on their minds, and it really takes a very long time before until the horror elements are mixed in. The plot centers on two groups of college friends (three male film students and the nerd they can't get rid off + three random girls) that mysteriously get invited to a Halloween party across Mexican borders. They encounter a spiritual doctor handing out all sorts of magic potions, party locations that vanish overnight and devilish voices in the background; all leading to the inevitably derivative and dull horror finale of reincarnation & vengeance from beyond the tomb. One of the girls turns out to be the mirror image of a Mexican duchess slain by her jealous husband nearly 100 years ago and only one of the boys – Johnny – can prevent that her soul will be taken to hell for all eternity. The horror elements of the story definitely miss their effect and the references towards the Greek mythology (the tale of Orpheus and the boat-ride to hell) are utterly misplaced. They're lost on the target audience of this type of film, anyway. Luckily enough, a handful of jokes and comical situations are entertaining enough to keep you alert. Particularly Ted's character is good for a couple of laughs, as he sees himself as God's gift to women even though he's the most annoying Star Wars nerd imaginable. The girls form terrific eye candy, but only the abnormally yummy Stephanie Arellano takes her top off, so the sleaze-factor of "Tequila Body Shots" isn't exactly impressive, neither. There's no gore or spectacular action sequences and the climax is so exaggeratedly happy & joyful it nearly made me feel miserable. NOT recommended, not even to the handful of teenage fans Joey Lawrence has left since starring in "Blossum". Yuck.