After renting this out of curiosity, and overall, wasting a very long 90 minutes out of my life, I feel like I need to comment on this. Keep in mind, this is a fair critique, nothing more, nothing less.<br /><br />First off, I am not one to just get a movie based on the cover art. I read the back cover, and even though Joey Lawrence of Blossom fame (if you could call it that) was in it, I decided to give it a try, just for once, to pick a movie, that might be one of those that might just surprise me in being a good movie. This one wasn't at all. The cover of the box is, however, very well done in that in portrays a good movie (unfortunately, this movie is not inside the box). Though, to bash it would be senselessly in the same vein as the same mockeries you hear elsewhere of such B-movies. Oh, this one has all of the complaints of a non-fun B-movie (keep in mind, B-movies, in my opinion, can be really fun to watch), but, there is something about it that sets it apart from my 1 and 2 star ratings on this site. But before I get to that rationale, first the obvious complaints. The dialogue is horrible. The plot is just stupid. For a horror movie it is not at all scary. But, and I know, I am biting my tongue saying this, the acting wasn't that bad. I've seen a lot worse. As for the direction, it really wasn't that bad either, believe it or not. Though still amateurish, any attempts of a B-movie being 'stylish' differentiates it from a movie shot with a home video camera, and that is okay in my book, at least in that respect. From what I gathered, they picked a bunch of better than average-talented no-name, yet, attractive actors to star in this, spent the time to throw in some (keep in mind, the word here is 'some') snazzy direction, and some decent music and lighting. Trust me, to be fair, I've seen a lot worse. It looked like everyone involved wanted to make something out of this movie, but, despite many other flaws, the script has to be the biggest. Though, it wasn't as stupid as others I've witnessed on the screen (there are a couple, surprisingly crude jokes that are somewhat amusing...at least they're right with the times, that's all I'll say), it still had way too many groaners, and was way too predictable. I'll give the cast credit with what they had to work with, I know amateurs when I see them, and at least half of the cast ain't that. The dialogue is just stupid, and the situations, man, how lame. But, the thing that bothered me the most was the characters...most were lame as could be. So lame that there were a couple that you wanted to see die horrible deaths, yet, this never happens. What we get is a movie that isn't a horror film, isn't a suspense or thriller, isn't much of a teen comedy...what it is is simply, perhaps an idea that sounded good on the drawing board, but completely failed upon execution. These 90 minutes felt like hours upon hours, and when it ends, it is completely ass-nine.<br /><br />Yeah, I didn't like this movie, but to call it complete crap would be unfair. It is crap, mind you, but, it is better than a lot I have seen over the years. Like I said, the acting, for a few of the characters was pretty good. But, unfortunately, that doesn't make up for a boring movie that will drain 90 minutes of your life that you will never ever get back. This isn't even one to get drunk and make fun of (i.e. one of those it is so bad it is good movies) b\c it takes itself so seriously, when it should know that the audience, given the cast and the non-mass produced title, has already given it two strikes against it. In my opinion, if a horror movie gets confused halfway through what it wants to do, becoming a slasher flick, though cheap (and I sure as hell ain't bashing slasher flicks, they're the most fun to make fun of), at least it can be entertaining. But no, there are no deaths or anything in this film, just stupid, pick up lines and improbable situations with too many characters who I wanted to see be vanquished due to their lameness. I give it a 3/10 stars, and that's pushing it. That's my story, and I'm sticking to it.