OK, I know that Dan Curtis directed the original Trilogy of Terror, but come on, this was just insulting the original story. Now I wanted to see this because I was curious since I liked the original so much, it is such a classic that is very under rated. So when I saw this playing on the Sci-Fi channel, I didn't hesitate to watch it. Now the first two stories weren't too bad, a little cheesy, but so was the first. I think these stories were meant to be over the top, but the third one was where it went bad. The third story was just a total rip off the the original Zooney hunting doll, the exact same stunts were used along with the exact same lines, the funny thing is, I don't think it was possible, but the woman was definitely more stupid and deserved to be... well... you know.<br /><br />Well, the first story is about a woman where her husband dies and she discovers his grave is missing and encounters horrible things when she finds out there is more than what meets the eye. The second story was about a mother and her son, her son drowns, but the guilt of not being there drives her mad and she resurrects him from the dead. But unfortunately, there maybe something more she brought back with her son. Then the third story was about the Zooney Hunting Fetish Doll that has murdered two women, but the police think it's a cult type of murder and give the doll to a scientist in a museum, but little does she know the horror that comes with having this doll by her side.<br /><br />The only thing I enjoyed about the last story was that I did get more than a few laughs, especially where they did her grabbing the blade of the knife from the doll when he is trying to get out of the suitcase she locked him in, and she goes for the blade once, gets cut, she acts surprised, but does she learn anything? No, she goes for it a second time! This film just didn't have the elements the first one did, Dan should have just left the stories alone, they are perfect the way they are.<br /><br />2/10