Just abysmal. All of it. Unprofessional, poor excuse with no redeeming features, made by a talentless hack who is so naive about the industry and yet so pretentious - the two always go together. No surprise she had to raise the money herself - there is not a professional in the world would give her a penny, or do anything other than laugh and cringe at her every attempt to sound like a director who follows Orson Welles. She probably enjoys pretending, but you wonder when she goes out in public where is her self-awareness for herself and her material. Her naivety and lack of personality shine through her every word.<br /><br />The movie itself doesn't even bare thinking about. It aims to be one of those 'Let's get the show on' movies, where it's all leading up to this one performance. If you can't get the climax right with this kind of thing, then you have no movie. The climax, which in this case culminates in the protagonist baring all and riding naked on a horse (as goes the legend of Lady Godiva of Coventry), could have been handled in one of two ways. It could have been done tastefully and elegantly which is probably how this pompous director would have like it to be. Or it could have been done with an element of sex appeal to it, which doesn't even necessarily mean nudity, but something sexy about - and that would have been the better way to go with it so that it would at least get people talking about this scene, generate attention to at least one remotely memorable scene and as anybody knows (except for Ms. Vicky Hack-son) movies need a couple of very memorable - aspiring to iconic - scenes. Either way it achieves neither and is merely as bad as the rest of it, she must be the only person who can make stripping, streaking and riding a horse bareback bare completely boring, stale, flat, trite and what I thought was chalked up the biggest cringe of the movie... until I heard the final line - I went away with stomach ulcers! <br /><br />If you look at the great filmmakers (which Vicky Jewson seems to believe she is destined to become with her delusions of grandeur), from Welles to Spielberg, and Allen to Scorsese, their debut/early films have been their best or at least shown some signs of developing talent. The only thing here seems to be some ideal that she is going to turn Oxford into Hollywood. She wanted to make a comedy. People are at least laughing at her, but for the wrong reasons.