I'm trying hard to think of alternatives, but i think this is the worst movie I've ever seen. That said, I'm pretty generous when it comes to reviewing movies, I can normally look past problems and just get a few laughs, or shocks, or whatever out of a mediocre move and then be happy. But Sunshine not only disappointed me, but it enraged me that such a thing could be.<br /><br />The first thing that hit me was massive lack of realism. I already knew the story was about the sun going out, but I didn't mind that too much, a movie is allowed to bend physics for the sake of plot, but when a reported brightness increase from 2% to 3.1% changed from a dim glow to blinding white any suspension of disbelief I could have ever attempted was crushed. Still, it may have been jarring, things such as the >1 year journey that is inside earths orbit also jarred me, but other than that first one I don't think the average viewer should have noticed, and unreal-ism, even in the case of this movie, shouldn't lose more than 1 point from movie's score, rather it was the plethora of other problems that doomed Sunshine.<br /><br />While still not absolutely crushing the movie, the characters themselves certainly ensured it could never get a rating better than "semi-decent". The characters showed the average intelligence and foresight of a dead maggot. these problems ranged from the relatively benign; such as when near the start of the movie a crew member did all the necessary procedures for changing the ship's course entirely on his own, not even asking another crew member to skim his work for problems; to the absolutely ridiculous "We'll cross that bridge when we come to it". That quote comes from a section where one of the crew decides to angle the deflector in such a way that a portion of the ship will be annihilated with 100% certainty. The rationale behind this decision (and the quote) was that "they weren't using that part of the ship at the moment". Many other such things happened, some even more ridiculous, such as venting the entire oxygen supply into a fire so it will burn faster, with no real reason given exactly why they would want that, though "We'll cross that bridge" was a personal favourite.<br /><br />Even with the above massive stupidities (which seem to be the main driving force for the movie's plot) the movie still would have had a chance for maybe 3 or 4 out of 10, but alas, it was not to be. the movie's plot firmly cemented it in the "Avoid this movie at all costs" zone. The plot starts out simple and understandable, deliver the Dues Ex mechina to the sun, it soon takes a twist, that under normal circumstances would add to a movie, by finding the previous, failed mission to the sun. At this point everything is as you should expect, problems arise, the crew has to fix problems, think of a sci-fi version of Apollo 13, except really bad. It could have still gotten 2/10 at this point, at least it would be reminiscent of a great movie, but at this point the plot turns to "We need to kill crew members to conserve oxygen!" and it carries this plot worse than your average fan-fiction. At this point my mind wandered to how this movie could have gotten one extra star if it had asked an interesting question, such as if humanity is worth saving if it will so readily kill it's own (still a questionable question). Instead, it asks a flat and simple "Is the crew more important than the mission?" and before you can think it answers "No! The mission is all-important!" in what seems like a bad ripoff of 2001 or (less related to the main plot) Alien. None of that matters though, because at the end it turns into "There's a madman on the ship!!!!" (More Alien allusion?) complete with scary sound and visual effects.<br /><br />There were other problems, such as generally confusing parts, (Looks like he made it to the other part of the ship only for it to explode.... oh, wait, turns out he was going the other way!) tonnes of sections that seem directly ripped from other movies, ("I'm sorry unmemorable crew member #1, I can't let you do that", but don't worry, it's only HAL for one scene) and parts that just didn't seem to make sense (Why did the hydroponics section catch fire? and why didn't the computer warn them 'till half an hour later).<br /><br />Finally, what could have been the redeeming factor of the movie, if it was redeemable at all, were the special effects. Even then they were "neat" but nothing to write home about, and for those hoping for a fancy flashy colourful special effect when the "Plot Device" activates at the end, there isn't one, seems you just can't win.<br /><br />For me, the highlight of this movie was being able to write the summary for this comment, and I think that should speak louder than anything else.