This has to be one of the worst ever. Directed by Jason Hrens, it lacked the punch good thrillers give you. First of all the plot, written by Turi Meyer and Al Septien, takes you all over the place, without any sense of where you're going. So it goes around and around. Secondly, it is probably the worst cast ever assembled in one film. One level performances by almost all of the leading players. Angie Everhart, supposedly the temptress, looks old enough to be the hero's mother, even tho she's supposed to be his wicked stepmother. Her acting consists of pursed lips, low cut nightgowns and fussing with her hair. She constantly is playing with her much too long hair. Always brushing it out of her face even thought it continues to fall in her face. Anyone ever hear of bobby pins? She was quite annoying to watch. The hero, played by a poker face Andrew W. Walker, offered nothing but a vacant look on his face and brains of a deadbeat. He was boring to watch. His hot love scenes were toneless and unbelievable. How could anyone be so stupid to fall for the stepmother's obvious put ons. Then there's papa, played by Winston Rehert, who goes around doubting his wife's motives. Is he blind not to see her obvious flirting with his son? Isn't he rich enough to hire a private detective to catch her in the act? Oh, well, some things never occur to jealous husbands, I guess. Amy Sloan as the other woman, was certainly not that attractive to kill for. Please. Get real here. With all the attractive and young starlets, there could have been better choices for this role. Frank Schorpion as the lawyer friend of the family never had his character defined enough to figure just what he had to do with the movie. Although Scorpion was one of the better actors in this trashy film. Bobo Vian as the housekeeper also was good with the little she was offered to do. John Tapor as the Homeless Man should get a mention here for his excellent characterization. He was very believable. Unfortunately he gets two shots in the film and that's it. It seems the better actors are wasted in this chestnut. I give it 3 stars for the three actors I just mentioned. Scorpion, Vian and Tapor. Sorry.