What is wrong with Unforgettable? (some spoilers) Ray Liota is the husband of a District Attorney who was killed while RAY was passed-out-drunk on the front yard of their house (and everyone thinks he did it). Ray meets a Scientist (Linda Fiorentino) who develops some kind of drug that she thinks allows one rat to use the brain fluid of another rat in order to live that rats memories. This project is in the early stages of experimentation, so Ray decides to seduce Linda so he can use her drug and patch into the memories of another victim of the person Ray thinks killed his wife. Linda does not react with any feelings of betrayal, and in fact becomes his little assistant so that Ray can go from brain to brain and figure out who killed his wife. The rest of the story moves along pretty well. Of course, the detective who keeps telling Ray to get on with his life is tipping his hand.<br /><br />Aside from being predictable and giving away the surprise ending, Unforgettable has some other minor flaws: 1. Brain fluid should not look like SYFO carbonated mineral water. 2. If you stick a five inch needle into someone's brain stem, a little blood might drip out? 3. If you take someone's brain fluid, and then inject the brain fluid into your bloodstream (intravenously) then you might have a heart attack when the heart cannot filter the brain fluid, but I do not see how injecting brain fluid into your arm is going to cause anyone to relive the memories of the person whose brain fluid was injected. 4. Even if it did work, wouldn't the brain fluid have thousands of memories? Why would it automatically go to the memories that Ray Liotta wanted to see? 5. Why does Linda continue to hang around when Ray basically USED her to get to her wonder drug, and he certainly never even gives her a kiss or even says he likes her! 6. Why does the Coroner fire Ray because he ordered a RUSH blood test? Seems like a real cheap Department if that is how they do things! 7. Why does the Bad Cop blow up Linda's lab?? Ray could not prove anything regardless of how many memories he could re-live. A better "bad guy" would have played it cool and claimed that Ray was crazy. Anyhow, those were some of the things that made this movie hard to get into. Ray Liotta's Cat-Scratch face and contortion acting made it even more difficult. I like Ray, but he always seems to be pretending he is the late John Belushi and is constantly twitching his face, eyelids, or arms and hands. Ray reminds me of Joe Cocker when he is singing.