Die Hard, one of the greatest action movies of all time, still to this day, it's more impressive than ever. If you were to look in the dictionary and look up the word action, this movie would probably be shown, lol. My mom was just absolutely in love with this film and told me how much I should see it if I love action movies, also I had become a Bruce Willis fan, so when she mentioned that, I decided to sit down and watch it. It's not just Bruce Willis that makes this movie, although he does a fantastic job as the ultimate hero, his line delivery is always perfectly on cue and he's just such a cool guy that anyone could love. But for me it was Alan Rickman who truly steals the film, he is the ultimate bad guy and his voice was just so creepy, I love him. But all together the cast and special effects truly make this a memorable film for generations to come.<br /><br />John McClane is a police officer who has taken his career very seriously, a little too seriously since his wife is about to divorce him and he's about to loose his children. When John comes to see his wife, Holly, at her office building during the company Christmas party, he asks if he can be given a second chance, but that gets slightly interrupted when terrorists enter the building. Hans Gruber, the leader of the terrorists, wants 600 million dollars of bonds from the company's owner. But with John in the building, he's gonna have a hard time because John is on his case will make sure to give him a roller coaster of a crime bust.<br /><br />This is without a doubt the most exciting action movie since The Terminator. I love the whole idea of this taking place around Christmas, it just adds a little more dark humor. Especially the way that Alan Rickman says "Now I have a machine gun. Ho...Ho...Ho", it was just so perfect! I really love Die Hard, I am officially a fan, this is just the most awesome movie to watch. Believe me, it's that good, I highly recommend this movie for anyone, it's a lot of fun, I guarantee you that you will not be disappointed.<br /><br />10/10