Actually it's phenomenal that so many people genuinely like this show. I can't believe it. For one thing, I know I don't. Right now, when I'm writing this, I've already decided to quit watching 'Heroes'. <br /><br />If I ran NBC, I'd broadcast the show in weekend mornings for little kids to watch, because that's just what this show is for. For children, not adults in prime-time TV time. There's absolutely no realism or even common sense science-fiction in 'Heroes'. It's not sci-fi, it's delusional fantasy! One could inject some sort of substance to human beings and they would get super abilities? Moreover, these 'powers' differ from one individual to another and are sooo unbelievable you have to actually give the creators of the show some credit for their boundless imagination. Some of the most ridiculous abilities include flying, conjuring fire, freezing things, shape-shifting (Wait, did I say shape-shifting? Are you kiddin' me?). Now tell me, how could any chemical substance alter a person so that he would be able to FLY? How would an organic body create a force that would lift it off the ground and carry anywhere? Just think about it the science way. Answer is...NO WAY could it ever be possible. Therefore it is not science fiction, because it is not based on science and only disgraces the noble sci-fi name. <br /><br />Plus, the whole special ability and being a hero idea is a total duplicate of X-men. How come creators of X-men haven't sued NBC for copying everything but the name of the show from them? Plus, it's very corny and some actors (most notably the lead, what's his name, Peter Petrelli) are overacting, making forced expressions of awe and amazement way too often. <br /><br />Plus, the show is afraid to kill-off characters, as they did with (SPOILERS begin here) Sylar, Claire's father, Nathan. They finally killed that darn mannequin Nikki only to bring the actor back in a role of her never-before-heard twin-sister? (SPOILERS end here) Do sissy slavered brats with bibs run this show?<br /><br />I can't really explain why have I watched the show for so long (till season 3). Maybe I had to get the bigger picture, see where the programme was going... Maybe I was light-hearted at first, but right now shows like these make me angry and disgusted. The only little redeeming factor could be the casting of some good actors. Dania Ramirez, Andre Royo, Jamie Hector. They were amazing in 'The Sopranos' and 'The Wire' respectfully. However, they were given small parts and a stupid script, what good could they have done? <br /><br />And so to conclude, unless you are a immature or a kid, don't watch or stop watching this circus on TV and chose other TV shows instead. Recommendations? If you like fantasy or something like that, check out 'True Blood' on HBO, a fun, light-hearted show that leaves you with a feeling of satisfaction after each episode. Want REAL science-fiction? Hmmm, that's probably a little bit more tricky... You could try out the new 'Fringe' on Fox with the amazing Lance Reddick in tow. Action? Come on, who could be better than 'Prison Break' on that? Other alternative - 'Sarah Connor Chronicles'. And of course, if you look for the queen of all genres, the drama, look no further than the golden 'Mad Men', 'Six Feet Under' or platinum 'The Sopranos' with 'The Wire'. Done expressing myself.