Despite a raging indifference to the acting chops of Carol Kane--I still can barely stand to watch "Taxi" largely due to her annoying grate--I decided to give "When A Stranger Calls" a chance. After all, who hasn't heard about the opening segment of this film, where babysitter Jill Johnson (Carol Kane) fields an increasingly sinister series of phone calls imploring her to "check on the children"? Lingering camera shots showing the dark, silent parts of the house highlight the growing sense of fear and despair felt by Kane's character as she bravely stands her ground for the benefit of her employer's children. Several phone calls to the police bring the men in blue into the picture, but will they get there in time if the caller materializes? The ominous shadow on the staircase signals trouble of a most horrific nature, Kane reacts, and the scene plays out to its grim conclusion. And then the real horror starts, the stark, soul shattering horror of watching a movie with a memorable beginning sink into a morass of banality. "When A Stranger Calls" would have worked better as a short, independent film strongly emphasizing its bravura opening instead of plunging into the sprawling mess we get here. Too bad.<br /><br />Years after that horrible night Curt Duncan, the crazed caller, is back out on the streets after a lengthy stint in an insane asylum. Unfortunately, no one told retired detective and now private eye John Gifford (Charles Durning), the cop who was there the night the caller terrorized Jill Johnson. The father of the children brutalized by Duncan hires Gifford to bring the psycho down anyway he can, if for no other reason than to prevent a repeat performance in some other person's family. Gifford agrees to take the case and begins looking for Duncan. "When A Stranger Calls" rapidly descends into boredom from this point forward, as we see Duncan attempting to rejoin society and utterly failing. He ends up in a bar where he meets Tracy (Colleen Dewhurst) and promptly receives a heck of a beating after attempts to ingratiate himself with Tracy brings on the wrath of a beefy bystander. Why Duncan expresses so much interest in a cranky barfly is just one of the many inexplicable questions that arise frequently during the film. You have a better chance of discovering the origins of the Sphinx or learning quantum physics at the age of three than understanding why this movie takes the turn that it does here.<br /><br />As Duncan takes a beating at the bar, Gifford enlists the aid of one of his cop friends, Charlie Garber (Ron O'Neal), now a lieutenant on the force who remembers the bloody horror of that night but hesitates in helping his buddy. This part of the film is interminable, with lots of shots of Tracy strolling through the blasted landscapes of her city in the middle of the night, Gifford pounding the pavement around town trying to track down Duncan, and the former caller's inept attempts to evade capture. Seeing Charles Durning run, although highly amusing and slightly worrisome from a coronary angle, is not enough to elevate this segment of the film. Thankfully, the film returns to its frightening pace at the end, when the now married Jill Johnson once again encounters Curt Duncan. And this time she has here own children to worry about. The scene where she takes a phone call at a restaurant is worth slogging through the preceding sixty minutes, as is the final showdown shortly thereafter.<br /><br />Another let down with "When A Stranger Calls" comes when we finally see Curt Duncan face to face. The guy simply isn't that scary in person. He's older, sort of thin, and looks like your average, every day type of guy and not anything like some former sailor with an insatiable lust for blood. Apparently, the actor who played Duncan, Tony Beckley, died shortly after making the movie. As for Carol Kane, she does a good job playing the eternally frightened Jill Johnson but then promptly disappears for a large part of the movie. Durning sleepwalks through the role of the determined cop John Gifford and Colleen Dewhurst is largely wasted in the meaningless role of Tracy. The performances on the whole aren't bad, but the wooden pacing and uninteresting middle part of the film insured that no performer, no matter how good, could have saved this movie from the doldrums.