Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy are the most famous comedy duo in history, and deservedly so, so I am happy to see any of their films. It is the Stone Age, 6000 years ago, and all men are forced to marry or work on the rock pile, but King Ferdinand orders all males over 13 and under 95 years must marry, or be banished, die, or both. We see an example of a marriage, in front of the law tablet, with the priest testing soul-mates, and bashing the couple's heads, literally. Arriving in the land is wizard Saxophonus (James Finlayson) with his daughter Blushing Rose (Viola Richard) and a long lasting toothache. Then along comes the Mighty Giant (Ollie) from the bogs, looking for anybody's wife, and after seeing the new law, he says he get any amount of women he wants. Trying to woo some women he gets constantly clunked on the head by a jealous man, and also a butt from a goat, so he think something doesn't want him to be with those women. Then along comes merry swain Little Twinkle Star (Stan) searching for romance, and hearing someone shout the new law, he giggles at the idea, and merrily jumping around he manages to tumble down a hill into a prickly cactus. After this Twinkle tries copying a caveman's technique for getting a girl, by picking her up and taking her away, but the girl he picks doesn't want it, and they have a kicking and tossing argument. Then Twinkle sees and chases Rose round a bush, and when he gets to her father, he will only allow a marriage if he proves himself as a provider of fish. While Twinkle goes to catch fish harpooning and using flies, Rose tries to ease her father's pain by pulling out the aching tooth with string tied to a rock. The father can't throw it, so the Giant comes along and does instead, but ends up throwing him over the cliff as well, but after tumbling, it seems it worked. Both Twinkle and Giant meet each other, and only one can have Rose with her father's permission, so they start squabbling, but Twinkle manages to send Giant off the near cliff with the help of goat's butt. After returning to Rose, Twinkle and she sit on what they think is a rock, but it turns out to be a brown bear that they wake, and running away in the cow and cart, they flip it upside down, and the film ends with the father and the couple with the bear joining them under the cart. Filled with some small slapstick and not too bad classic comedy, it isn't great, but it's a silent black and white film worth looking at. Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy were number 7 on The Comedians' Comedian. Okay!