Saw this last night, and was looking forward to watching a film with both Nicole Kidman and Sandra Bullock.<br /><br />As for the witchcraft aspect of the film, it looked all OK to me. Nothing was too wrong or inaccurate, after all, there are as many incarnations of witchcraft practices as there are shades of green. That is to say that any portrayal is not necessarily wrong, as there are no set teachings in what is right and what is wrong when practising the craft. So to the person who said it was totally incorrect when the bird is stabbed with the needle as Wicca doesn't do it, no. Your practice of wicca doesn't but other's might.<br /><br />My main complaints about the film are script and production inaccuracies. The first is when Kidman is saying that her boyfriend is from Bulgaria: "close to Transilvania... he's got the whole Dracula-cowboy thing going on". Please. Transilvania is a region in Romania - a totally different country. Even from the border of Bulgaria and Romania to Transilvania is at least a couple of hundred miles. The 2 countries are different in language and culture. I really hate when films from the USA get such basically simple but fundamental things such as geography wrong. It's not hard to get these things right! The second thing in the film, which is more of a goof... when Sandra Bullock had to go and rescue Nicole Kidman, the aunts were going to take the kids to the Solstic Celebrations. There are solstices a year. One on 21 June. The other on 21 December. The film was supposed to be set around the December solstice. There was no mention or indication of Christmas (or anything to do with the Christmas season) in the film. OK, witches may not necessarily put up a tree, etc. But in the scenes with Kidman in Arizona, or wherever, surely the motel would have had something Christmassy - from experience in the USA, 4 days before Christmas, everything has lights and decorations.<br /><br />I'm tired typing. But these were the 2 main issues which bugged me about the film since I saw it last night.