I'm giving this 2 stars (rather than 1) since it is so bad that it bounced off the bottom of the scale and began heading towards the entertaining end of the spectrum again. I must admit, I only caught the last 45 minutes and while I was working on my laptop but most older viewers will only need minimal conscious facility to assimilate this movie. Younger viewers should probably only view it in the company of an adult that can explain it's pure fiction originating from a time of scientific ignorance.<br /><br />One of the many departures from the biblical version is that Noah Danza wants God to give him a little more time before the flood so he can attend his son's basketball match. What joy can these idiots get from competing with and beating a bunch of people they believe will soon be drowned? And surely the hypothetical God entity is scratching its heads at this point and wondering whether this smug little bunch of monkeys really needs to be saved. In the end the story is cowed by modern sensibilities and Danza gets everyone in town on board, they have a bit of a float, and God pulls the rainbow out of its infinity of posteriors.<br /><br />Of course this version retains all of the scientific corruption of the original fable vis-a-vis global flooding and loading of animals two by two. Why make any concessions to conservation of biomass when you can't breed up a viable population from two individuals anyway? We are told God created the whole lot in a day to start with. Surely it can crank them all out again post-flood. Maybe it had already blown its creative budget and wouldn't be back up to full world building strength for a few millennia.<br /><br />Its sad and pathetic but still rather humorous watching the film makers trying to co-opt the religion of the Jews as they cram Old Testament harshness into modern American Fairyland. The story of the Ark was gibberish to begin with but after so many transformations its just ludicrous. They may as well just stand before the camera for two hours shrieking and making faces. Production costs would be lower. Then again, as has been intimated by an earlier poster, perhaps not that much lower.