When a friend of mine brought this over the other night, I looked at the cover photo and read over the plot synopsis on the rear cover and demanded we watch it right away. I am a huge fan of amazingly-bad horror flicks. Having recently viewed Feast and Feast 2( two hilarious "A" for effort movies) I had the utmost faith when I saw the Dimension Extreme logo in the corner. My friend's head was in the right place when he purchased Triloquist on a whim. However, his whim of keeping the receipt was undoubtedly the wiser.<br /><br />Without giving the story, or complete lack thereof, away, I want to just put out this disclaimer to potential purchasers/ viewers. If you are in the market for a wild gore-fest, steer clear of this movie. You will find no such thing here. In the film, any scene that leads to a killing or anything remotely close to a death scene is cut short. The screen always goes black. You only are treated to very little tension before these happenings, and an unsatisfying, weak aftermath shot.<br /><br />Most budget horror films rely on ridiculous points of comedic relief. I was hoping for plenty of these points. Though I did chuckle a handful of times, this one runs dry pretty quick. Angelina says some pretty wild stuff throughout, but about halfway through the movie the gimmick runs dry. I was hoping that at least the dummy would be hilarious, but his dialogue is pretty stale. <br /><br />The reason that budget horror flicks remain as popular as they are is because they are usually over the top. They make up for the lack of money afforded with great entertainment, and often, shock value. Triloquist is an epic failure in all departments. I can't even imagine the most low maintenance, easily entertained viewer to think that this movie is worth the labor it took to package it and the fuel it wasted on it's way to the store. If you enjoy "Horror/Comedy" movies that contain absolutely no horror, and lame comedy scattered few and far between, then Triloquist is right up your alley. I'd recommend it as bird-cage lining myself. If you want a good "evil doll" fix then check out something that at least tries. Magic with Anthony Hopkins, Puppet Master, Demonic Toys, even Dolly Dearest. Steer clear of Triloquist.