If one is good at suspending disbelief, "Flight 93" is a mildly entertaining piece of drama, along the lines of a typical 'Lifetime' TV movie. The unforgivable sham is that they would make a cheesy TV movie about a subject like this. As a documentary, this is pure lies and propaganda. Cell phone calls at 3,000 feet? Impossible! Don't people realize this?? Only now, in 2010 are the airlines beginning to install the equipment to make this possible. Perhaps Flight 93 was a magic plane, because there were no cell phone calls reported coming from the other three planes that were hijacked that day. People need to think, and it is frightening how many people will believe anything that they hear on television, or from their crooked government. I realize this is a movie site so I will review the film.<br /><br />first off, those endless, obnoxious scenes of children playing, crying, laughing, running, hugging; I haven't seen an example of such shameless propaganda since the newsreels from Nazi Germany! Did every single passenger on that plane have a litter of children? In one hilarious scene a man phones his wife (ON A CELLPHONE FROM AN AIRPLANE NO LESS) and she is there with three other women, and EACH WOMAN IS BOUNCING A BABY ON HER LAP! The thing that worried me most about this film is that the USA is going to have a population problem soon, if every American has an average of 8 kids! <br /><br />But the most unforgivable thing about this mess is the way the terrorists were portrayed. They are given no character development, and absolutely no attempt was made to even offer a basic explanation of their reasoning, of their philosophy, of the way they view religion and their beliefs of the afterlife. The entire film focused on a bunch of Americans calling their families and saying goodbye. Sorry but, can't people see that, although those people might have been good, fine citizens with families, they are not very interesting? The most interesting characters on that plane were the terrorists, and the only thing we got to learn about these guys is that: A: they are sexy, and B: they like to wear red Rambo bandannas! Shame on all involved, and mostly on the United States Government that is JUST AS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 9/11 INCIDENT as Al'Quaida, with their lapse, lazy security and their failure to handle a disaster of this proportion. If America is the richest, most powerful nation on Earth, as they are fond of saying, then where is all the money going?? certainly not towards protecting its own land. For those thinking people who are interested in the subject, see "United 93," a professionally-made film that leaves out the melodrama, and presents the hard facts, while giving at least some insight to the mindset of Islamic Extremists, (and please remember that these extremists only account for about 10 percent of the Islamic World, as the majority of Muslims are deeply saddened and ashamed by these violent events.)<br /><br />Lastly, this ridiculous film perpetuates the myth that the passengers of Flight 93 were heroes. Do people actually believe that these people, in their last moments on Earth, were thinking, "Well, were gonna die anyway, so lets save the White House!?" I wasn't on that plane, but it doesn't take a genius to realize that they were doing the most natural thing in the World; they were trying to survive, to save their asses. I don't think that saving the White House entered the mind of even one person on that plane. These people were not saints; they were just ordinary people, falsely portrayed as heroes to boost the US morale and get Americans "bloodthirsty" for revenge. "Flight 93?" See "Snakes On a Plane" instead; it's better fiction, and not so offensive...