I'm going to guess that 'Cutting Class' became a cult classic only because it stars a very young pretty boy that we all know as Brad Pitt. I sure can't see any other value in this awful movie. It makes Student Bodies (a hilarious horror parody) look like 'The Godfather.'<br /><br />First off, this is not much of a horror movie. About ninety percent of the movie plays out like an after school special, focusing on the troubled life of the aggressive pretty boy, Dwight (Brad Pitt). He's the jock who often finds himself competing with former mental hospital patient, Brian Woods (Donovan Leitch) for the attention of the classic horror movie virgin, Paula (Jill Schoelen). Basically, the material is so cliché, it's not even interesting. At least with Student Bodies, they turned the cliché into a parody and were willing to make fun of themselves for being such a bad movie. Here, they couldn't even give us that benefit of the doubt. But, we get this long boring story about these three main characters that seems to have no point, except to draw your attention every now and then to the campus killer, who conveniently cuts into the act (no pun intended...i guess). I suppose that the filmmakers thought it necessary to remind you of that, just in case you forgot. Look, there's that dang killer again. He's gone and killed the best friends. Or the teacher who gave our characters hell. It's definitely a horror movie by the book. Yes, word for word.<br /><br />I like how Martin Mull, who plays Paula's father and the first victim of the killer, is shot by a archery arrow and is left bleeding, but manages to survive like this for days. When the kids are in the woods around the creek where he's fallen, wounded, he can't manage to let out more than a dying breath to try and get someone's attention to help him. Of course, no one does. But later, possibly after another day has passed, he manages to get up and walk all the way home and then scold his daughter for not being in class. If that doesn't just wreak of stupidity...<br /><br />But the end all be all of this awful movie is the worst dialogue, especially at the end. And performed in such a way that it's almost like they're reading from cue cards off-stage. They pause, then say their stupid line (and I can't decide which character is more ridiculous--Brian or Paula), then we have another awkward pause, and so forth. The finale on the whole is just completely stupid. <br /><br />I guess, there's no point in continuing. If you want to see Brad Pitt in an early role, I would definitely recommend watching something else (Dark Side of the Sun was a good one, but hard-to-find). Otherwise, you'll find plenty of him here as capital moron, D(uh!)wight. As far as teen horror movies go, the 80s gave us plenty of them, good ones in fact. Once again, I recommend watching horror parody Student Bodies. If you're going to see a bad movie, at least see one you can laugh at.