I was initially sucked in... I am also a huge fan of post-apocalyptic movies, shows, and books. That is, until they tried to treat radiation sickness with iodine off the shelf. I suppose the writers never even bothered to check that out on any web page readily available on the subject. Then comes the Rain fallout: once it stops raining, everyone just went back to their fields and harvested the highly contaminated food from the highly contaminated soil. Alrighty then.... They also lack any sort of military adviser given the way they handle every armed encounter. It wouldn't be so awful if the characters didn't consist of an ex-Army Ranger, a mercenary and black ops member, and an FBI "uber" agent. While the acting is acceptable, the characters in general, are cardboard cut-out stereotypes, with little depth or deviation from their assigned roles. The women in the story are simply window dressing for the men and have no real voice or power. The men run the show, make all decisions, while the women in true 1950's fashion, support their men- regardless of how many bad, ignorant decisions they keep making. They simply hold down the fort, cook up food for the menfolk, and nurse the sick, all with perfect hair and makeup. On several occasions, they stupidly squander resources - like when they have a giant town BBQ with the meat so it doesn't spoil instead of smoking or salt-curing it; or like lighting up the street lights with the limited electric power they have. There also does not seem to be one short wave radio operator in town that can get a signal from even the closest town. Lastly, the unrealistic feel of the town is impossible to ignore. No major chain grocery? No real department store? One doctor in a town of 5000 people? It is a ridiculous attempt by the writers to portray a perfect middle America Mayberry RFD town to appeal to the masses -- unfortunately, that kind of town hasn't existed in about 50 years - if it ever did. I would suspect none of the writers have even driven through the Midwest, if this is how they picture it. <br /><br />Overall - Pass over this one. It stared out with a good premise, and went downhill. How can one explain a show like Firefly getting canceled and this one sticks? The is beyond me who would want to keep this show around enough to send the nuts to CBS.