This is a terrible film and it's amazing that the film producers were able to get many respectable actors to appear in it. Now the fact that William Shatner appears in DEVIL'S RAIN isn't much of a surprise, but it is surprising that his performance is rather restrained. He does what he can with the silly material. But, for people like Ida Lupino, Keenan Wynn, Tom Skerritt, Eddie Albert and Oscar-winner Ernest Borgnine, it's amazing that they act in a film as dopey as this one. Of all the actors, the one who deserves the biggest round of Bronx cheers is Borgnine, whose performance is utterly awful--particularly when he, believe it or not, transforms into a ram-man late in the film. No, I am not talking about the football team, but Borgnine undergoes a weird transformation where he dons horns and an entire male sheep's head! You've gotta see it to believe just how far Borgnine fell since his Oscar-winning performance starring in MARTY! <br /><br />The film begins in the middle of the desert in the Western United States. A lone house occupied by Lupino, Shatner and some old guy (whose role is never defined in any way) is suddenly attacked by supernatural forces during a freak rain storm. Apparently, some Satan worshipers are making this happen until they get some sacred book that Shatner's mother (Lupino) is hiding. When they won't give it up, Lupino is kidnapped and Shatner goes to an abandoned Old West town to get her back from these evil scumbags. However, in a silly contest of wills, Shatner not only loses but is forced to join the group of eye-less zombies in this coven.<br /><br />Later, Shatner's brother (Tom Skerritt) shows up at the house and is told by the old dude that Shatner has gone to the ghost town. Now it's obvious that the house was ransacked but the sheriff said he and his men were too busy to look for Shatner and Lupino! Shouldn't this have been a warning sign?! Despite this, Skerritt and his lady friend go to the abandoned town for a showdown.<br /><br />Once there, they see evidence of the coven and Skerritt actually sees Shatner forced by some mumbo-jumbo to become an eye-less zombie. He sends the lady for help and just manages to escape on his own. Unfortunately, she is captured and Skerritt and Eddie Albert (who's an old man) on their own return to the city to face a huge coven of evil demonic Lucifer lovers! Wow, talk about great planning! Once there, there is a dumb showdown where again and again, Albert and Skerritt show they have the combined IQ of a muskrat. Skerritt has a rifle, yet jumps from the balcony to fight the hoard with his bare hands. Albert grabs some cool TV set-like device that the coven needs and threatens to break it--but instead of just doing it, he gives everyone ample opportunity to kill him or take back the cosmic TV.<br /><br />Despite him being about 70 and giving them every chance to get it back, he still manages to smash the TV thingy and then all the evil folks start to melt like they are made of gallons of colored latex. It's all rather gross but funny at the same time. Now normally, seeing these people melt would have taken up about a minute of screen time. However, the special effects gurus must have been relatives of the director and this melting sequence takes about ten minutes (I am not exaggerating). Most of the ten minutes consists of "actors" writhing about as green pudding shoots out their eyes and gallons of Creepy Crawler goop comes dripping out of their skin. Then, out of the blue, there is an ending that is cool to watch but doesn't make much sense, but considering the film so far, who's to quibble about the ending?! As you read this, you are no doubt shocked at how silly the whole thing sounds. Well, it surely was but in some odd way it was also watchable because it had a certain stupid charm. Plus, seeing respected actors (I am not including Shatner in this statement) making fools of themselves is a lot of fun. Additionally, if you look carefully, you can see a very young John Travolta making an idiot of himself in his first film. Look for the cleft chin and nose--you can't miss it.<br /><br />Anton LaVey appears in a small role as a Satanic priest and organist as well as a script consultant for the film. Being the leader of the Church of Satan in California and author of "The Satanic Bible" somehow gave him some great insights into how to improve the script and make it more realistic. Yeah, right.<br /><br />Finally, I really liked the opening credits. Having the camera slowly pan across paintings of Hell by Hieronymous Bosch while eerie music played was very effective and spooky. If you have a chance, try picking up a book or do a web search of Bosch's works--they are amazingly bizarre and unusual when seen today. Believe it or not, when he was painting in the 15th and 16th centuries, he was very popular and others often copied his odd symbolism. Today, Goths and all-around weird people (like myself) enjoy his work, though I will admit it's an acquired taste!