While watching, my mind constantly came back to the question of what would possess someone to make a film like this. Sure, the story's opening hints of romance when the world was young, but then can't decide if it was ten or a hundred thousand years ago. Only one thing is certain with a film like this, with all the scantily clad women center stage, it's only a matter of time before the obligatory cat fight. That takes place about midway through, but you'll have to endure endless plodding narration at both ends before calling it a day.<br /><br />There are some interesting historical breakthroughs on display though. The male hero Engor (Allan Nixon) discovers fire, while his buddy Kama invents the barbecue, even if by accident. As goofy as it all looks, if you think about it, that very first piece of cooked meat had to get a start somewhere, so this is just as good a rationalization as any. Come to think of it, if the male tribe had a streak of cannibalism, old Guadi might have been on the menu when he became a crispy critter - yikes! <br /><br />I'd be curious to find out how close this movie was to being the first done in color. Quite a few scenes look natural enough, but you'll have to muddle through a murky opening suggesting a soft porn ritual dance by the man-less women tribe. Then there are scenes that actually look like they're in black and white.<br /><br />For fans of family trees, the Smith and Jones equivalent of the dinosaur era must have been Engor. That was also the name of the main male tribesman in the 1958 flick, "Wild Women of Wongo". That film also followed the exploits of love starved prehistoric women who set out to enslave male captives for the purpose of, well you know. Watching that film might also lead you to the same query as posited earlier, but at least WWoW had a campy flavor and didn't take itself as seriously as this one. Here however, the women used bolos and clubs to beat on the cave boys, so score one for Tigri and the girls. Nice outfits too!