'Kay, it's like this: the captain of a yacht delivers boxes of alcohol to some nerdy scientists on a remote island. They meet him with a gun and offer him a drink. A hurricane comes and the black guy gets killed by dogs wearing carpet coz he opted to hide from them up a sapling. Back in the house everyone's having a drink. Rosco threatens to leave, so they have a drink. The Swedish doctor's daughter starts crying, so he offers her a drink. They confess their big secret about 200-300 mutant killer shrews, which is really funny coz there's only about 5 carpet dogs on the island. Rosco accepts the story about the killer shrews, and everyone has a drink. The Mexican dude wakes up Rosco because one – only one – carpet dog got in through the window and went down into the cellar. He knows this because the window and cellar door were open.<br /><br />Rosco and Mexican dude go down to exterminate it, but Mexican gets bitten. He dies as if poisoned, and the carpet dog's saliva is tested positive for the same poison they put out to poison the shrews with, which seemed to be as effective as breath mints. They test the Mexican dude's blood for poison as well. What the hell for? What else could have poisoned him? Could it be possible that he might have swallowed some arsenic or something while no-one was looking? I reckon the scientists just wanted to do an autopsy for the fun of it.<br /><br />Rosco has another drink. A carpet dog gets in and poisons the nerdy scientist man who spends his last moments recording his physiological symptoms on his typewriter. Meanwhile the carpet dogs are eating through the walls George Romero-style. A carpet dog manages to chew a hole through the wall and poke his head through, and instead of covering the hole with the liquor cabinet or upending the typewriter table, Rosco covers the hole with a SOFA. The carpet dogs will NEVER chew through that.<br /><br />The Swedish blonde girl, who dumped Jerry coz he is an alcoholic, starts falling in love with the sailor (frying pan, fire…). Jerry resents this so he tries to kill Rosco when they go check out the yacht. Rosco almost chucks him over the wall. They start welding metal drums together. A carpet dog pokes his nose through some wooden shutters, so Rosco cleverly attacks him with the blowtorch, coz that won't cause problems when the house burns down. They use the drums like a big tank go get to the sea and swim to safety. The Swedish doctor talks about overpopulation, but Rosco tells him that he isn't worried about overpopulation at that point in time, then Rosco kisses the Swedish doctor's daughter.