"Winning London" is the story of a girl named Chloe who is the captain (?) of her high school Model UN club. After doing well in a tournament, her team is invited to the giant, international competition is London, England. However, when one of her team mates cannot attend, Chloe's twin sister Riley step in (mostly so she can hook up with some guy on the team).<br /><br />I've never really loved or hated the Olsen Twins and their movies. But, a little while ago, I got suckered into watching this on TV by a friend of mine. This is a relatively harmless, but bad movie. The plot is pretty typical, and unimaginative, with nothing very interesting, creative, or unique about it. It relies heavily upon cliché jokes, plot devices, and, of course, stereotypes. Also, there are times when you can see how low budget this movie is. When Riley and a her boy toy are crawling through the air ventilation, it's really tall and wide and looks like a crappy set.<br /><br />The acting is also pretty thin. The Olsens are blah, and really I felt nothing for either of their characters. They both seem rather unpleasant and whiny. One is willing to step over anyone and be a (for a lack of a better word) bitch just so she can win. The other is continually whining and making a big deal of how her crush isn't remembering her the way he should. The side characters also got on my nerves. That annoying kid with the camera (I forget his name) and the rather bland and boring fat girl. Even Jesse Spencer, who I rather like as an actor, wasn't that great. The accents were also pretty bad. Really, I found it sad to see the British people in the movie being portrayed as uptight posh individuals with accents that were garbled and couldn't be understood.<br /><br />But really, though I didn't like this movie, and there were a lot of things that bugged me about it, it wasn't really anything terrible. In fact it's pretty harmless and dull. I don't think that I will forever have the horrible images of "Winning London" emblazoned in my brain. Probably, in about a week, I'll forget all about it. Besides, I'm not the intended audience. It's good if you have younger girls, they'll be entertained. Also, if you're an Olsen twins fan, then of course you're going to love it. If you're anyone else, I say just skip it.