Let me state emphatically that I loved and throughly enjoyed the 1976 novel "RAISE THE TITANIC" by author and deep-sea discoverer Clive Cussler, it was one of the greatest and most spellbinding books of the 2oth century. But this 1980 movie that carried the title totally destroyed this great work of fiction. Admittedly Dr. Bob Ballard's 1985 discovery of the actual wreck of the giant liner has made this the most dated version in history, considering that people in 1912 ignored some of the survivors who said she didn't sink in one piece, but broke up just before sinking. Ballard's discovery has authenticated these statements. I have been a history buff on the sinking of the RMS TITANIC ever since September of 1966 with the opening episode of the ABC-TV IRWIN ALLEN SCI-FI SHOW "THE TIME TUNNEL" where time travelers Tony Newman and Doug Philllps (Jimmy Darren & Robert Colbert) went on the first of many journeys to this ship just hours before she struck the iceberg sinking carrying 1,502 men, women and children to their untimely death's in 28 degree water. How anyone survived the water for over 10 minutes no one knows, but it is true that at least 6 person's were pulled alive and stayed alive, after this time though originally 150 were pulled out still alive but died and were buried at sea by the rescue ship Carparthia. Incidentally the Carpathia was torpedoed in WW I in 1918, and was it's wreck was found by Dr. Cussler in 2001. The main note of a person surviving the water was Bakker Charles Jorgen (1888-1977) who was kept alive for more than 2 1/2 hours in the water before being pulled onto Second Officer Charles Lighttoller's overturned Collapsable B lifeboat after 1st Wireless Operator John Jack Phillips froze to death on the boat minutes before Boat No. 12 took them all off just as it was about to submerge. This 1980 movie really isn't worth the time to even focus on in any way shape or form, it is such a total waste of the talents of such great character actor's such as the late Jason Robards. It totally wiped out the entire plot of the 1976 book. For example they have a takeover of the ship by the Russian Col. Prevlov, who is captured by the American's and turned into a good guy for us. Gene Segram goes totally mad at the end of the book and Dana his wife is divorcing him, and has an affair on the ship with Dirk Pitt. Leaves out the start where the guy is brining the stuff over on the Titanic the night of the disaster, and locks himself in the vault. The old man that Pitt talks to is not running a pub in the book, he is the last surviving crew member in 1987, and calls Dirk Pitt away from the expedition to hear the story of a dying old LYMIE as Pitt calls him at first, but through him learns the story of the Titanic. They also leave out all about the mens expedition except finding the miners body in the mine in northern Russia, and don't mention that his widow who was a lot younger than himself in 1912 is still alive in 1987 now aged 93 and gives an interview to one of the important people. It also changes the ending of the story about at the one miners grave, where they find that the just and rocks are actually in the grave but they leave the grave untouched in the movie, which went totally contrary to the book. In the book they dug up the grave the stuff was tested at the very moment that out in the north Atlantic that old crewmember who had just died his ashes were spread over the wreck former wrecksite of the Titanic. This was taken from actual history for Commander John Joseph Boxhall (1878-1967) the 4th officer of Titanic and the last surviving officer to pass away in 1967 actually had this done at his death. May it be noted that Boxhall at age 80 in 1958 was technical consultant to the B& W film "A NIGHT TO REMEMBER" an excellent film. Also anyone who read the book will also remember that in the book Gene Segram was not in the submersibule that they had to rush the Titanic up with to save the men in the sub. And when the Titanic came up in the book it came up the way they last saw TITANIC in 1012 stern first. They were afraid that it would come up so fast that it would raise too far out of the water and flip bellyup. They also left out the Hurricane that Titanic had to survive getting to New York or the 2 Russian born spies that tried to sabotage the ship drilling holes in the bottom. They did hold to some of the story but what little they did even this they destroyed. I aeiterate go out to the public library and read the book, by Clive Cussler is fantastic reading but as the main critic of this movie said "AVOID IT LIKE THE PLAUGE". Personally I gave it a 1-STAR only because there wasn't anything less to give it. If I had my personal choice I would give it a -10 stars on a 1-10 scale it stunk so bad. Only some of the Sci-Fi movies of the 1950's were worse than this destruction of a great novel.