The male leads in 'Hot Saturday' are Cary Grant and Randolph Scott, who -- in real life -- were house mates at about the time this movie was made. Some people have publicly speculated that Grant and Scott had a sexual relationship. I'll comment that there's very little real evidence for this. I saw 'Hot Saturday' at the Film Forum in NYC, and several people in the audience made nudge-wink noises when Scott's character shyly admitted that he's not very comfortable with women. Scott plays a geologist who's holed up in a cave, and he seems to be interested only in catacombs and stalagmites ... not catamites.<br /><br />'Hot Saturday' is one of those stories (like 'A Village Tale', or the much better known 'Peyton Place') about a small town where everybody knows about everybody else's dirty linen. There are plenty of rumours in this movie, starting with Cary Grant ... who plays a character cried Romer, but everyone pronounces it 'rumour' as if he were the novelist Rumer Godden. Grant makes his entrance in a dazzling all-white outfit with white buck shoes, topped off by a black trilby. Later, Grant plays a scene in white jodhpurs that would have looked quite fetching on one of the FEMALE characters. The town is called Marysville, for some reason.<br /><br />I found most of this movie quite boring. Good-girl Ruth (Nancy Carroll) is a friend of rock-hopper Scott but she dallies with playboy Grant. Then she's suddenly eager to marry Scott. He glances in the direction of her midriff and suspects that Grant did something to make her anxious to get married in a hurry. Do the maths. Carroll's father, played by William Collier, is named Harry Brock: the same name as the villain in 'Born Yesterday'.<br /><br />The only scenes in this pre-Code movie that didn't bore me were three very kinky bits. Ruth accuses her kid sister Annie (the very sexy Rose Coghlan) of stealing her knickers. When Annie denies this, Ruth wrestles Annie onto the bed, hoists up Annie's skirt and yanks the underpants off Annie's body. This sequence is amazing! In a later sequence, Ruth wears a very fetching pair of gauntlet cuffs. Later still, she arrives at Randolph Scott's cave soaking wet from a rainstorm and straight away passes out. When she wakens under a blanket, the first things she sees are her own clothes -- including her bra and knickers -- strung out to dry. I guess that Randolph Scott likes girls after all.<br /><br />The only interesting parts of this movie were those three kinky bits, and very few people are turned on by gauntlet cuffs ... so that leaves just two kinks, and I'm rating this snore-fest 2 out of 10.