Bratz: The Movie follows the lives of four total BFF high school students, Yasmin, Sasha, Chloe, and Jade, as they share their adventures through school. When they first begin their experience as freshmen, they vow to say together forever no matter what. However, their plan is road blocked when, Meridith, the creepy, stalker, spoiled queen of the school splits them up into different cliques. However, the four "Bratz" find their friendship (and fashion!) are the true important things in life and therefore decide to stop the evil Meridith's dastardly scheme together.<br /><br />So, normally I would probably never watch a cheap, superficial movie based on a line of anatomical incorrect dolls, but, since the particular child that I was babysitting a few weeks ago loves the movie, I pretty much had to. And now I'm still trying to wash the nasty taste out of my mouth.<br /><br />Really, I don't know if there are any other ways for me to describe this god awful train wreck besides what everyone else has said. And yes it is truly as bad as everyone says. But I feel it is my right to bitch after watching it, so here we go. First off, the acting is terrible. I can't think of one person's performance that wasn't amateurish, stereotypical, stupid, or all three. Even Jon Voight was awful (someone had some bills to pay?). All the characters are one dimensional. Meridith, played by an Ashley Tisdale wannabe, has such a paper thin personality, the wind could split her in half. She does not embody the evil queen bee. Instead, she's just an annoying bitch whose main past time is stalking the four "totally awesome and cool" Bratz. And the Bratz are really no better themselves. In fact, from my high school experience, those girls would probably be the annoying girls who stay in their own little clique and ignore everyone else. The plot is typical "high school" movie crap, including a party that goes terribly wrong and ending with a talent show that saves the day, giving the Bratz everything they ever need, and making sure that Meridith gets royally screwed. This movie also tires to give heartwarming "messages." What they are, I really don't know. Somehow they try to pass off something about individuality and friendship, but it comes out as muddled B.S. So, according to Bratz, the only way to be successful in life is by continually clinging to the people you've known before we came out of your mother and making sure that you always, ALWAYS, wear what's fashionable, otherwise you're a totalloser.<br /><br />Even though this IS based on a line of dolls, it could have been good. It could have been a satire about four fashion loving girls being almost outsiders in the normalcy of high school. It could have shown how people who are friends grow apart as they grow up (but that might also include showing ACTUAL individualism and something that could happen in the real world rather that a bunch of annoying, clingy girls who would die without each other). But, of course, it only lives of to the expectations of this type of movie: it's going to be crap. Wanna see a movie about being fashionable yet an outsider? Watch Legally Blonde. Want a satirical (and funny) look at cliques? See Mean Girls or better yet, Heathers. Because, why not watch the original movies Bratz enjoys ripping off?