I've been watching this show as a fan from the first episodes and now many years later have come to the conclusion this show is completely fake and that Jason and Grant are nothing but a couple of frauds. I admit I still watch portions from time to time and can actually feel my IQ lower while doing so. I just can't understand why this garbage is still on television. A show that in my opinion should have been canceled a couple of years ago when it was becoming clear that one of the investigators, who we all know now was Grant was faking evidence for the sake of the viewers.<br /><br />The show which deals with paranormal investigations seems to be less about the paranormal and more about pulling fast ones on the viewers, viewers who seem to be more interested in the girls and guys seen on the show who have little crushes on these non-celebrities. When certain people try and debunk the shows evidence and point out parts of the show that seem to be obvious hoaxes the fans become defensive seemingly afraid these people may be exposed for exactly what they are... frauds.<br /><br />It's still on though even though during a recent live Halloween investigation it became clear that head investigator Grant was guilty of trying to pass off a fake voice and on the same show tried making it seem like his jacket was pulled on by a ghost, when it was clear he was doing it himself by something rigged in his pocket. But these frauds state it was authentic and the fans buy it all. Recently these two frauds created an International version and in 2009 created a so-called Ghost Hunters Academy obviously created to make them even more money and train a new generation of frauds.<br /><br />My vote on a scale from 1 to 10 is 1 (awful), that's only because I can't give this piece of crap of a show a big zero. This particular show seems to be about exploiting the paranormal field and it's gullible fans for the sake of the might dollar, passing off fake ghostly sounds and footage just to keep its viewers tuned in. If your a believer looking for a good ghost hunting show check out Ghost Adventures or Ghost Lab which I believe fans of this show are slowly tuning into as they learn what a big joke Ghost Hunters has become.