Hmmmm, interesting. I'll keep this short on detail, as so many have done such a good job of pointing out the myriad problems with this series both of itself and as a laughably awful remake of a good original series. Ludicrously similar to the (usually) teen-aged modern "role playing game" fans who constantly talked of the lack of "darkness" in some game they were involved in a decade past, but themselves had so little experience of "DAHKNESSSSSSS" that they'd have shrieked and run not only from anything remotely like one of the creepy crawlies (usually human appearing, but horrific in some psychological or spiritual way) they wanted featured and emphasized into the ground but also shielded and run or simply self-destructed from any realistic darkness that had presented itself into their unthinking little lives. Or perhaps the equally silly conviction of the teen-aged "goths"; kids asserting the world had already gone to hell in its very own handbasket and wearing black and being morose was utterly original and beautifully "realistic" and anyone who did not agree just didn't understand (and was really dumb besides). Come to think of it, they had the the same rabid reaction to anyone pointing out the fact that the last few generations have also had a cadre of black-wearing "originalists" in high school...LOL!!!<br /><br />The single detailed comment I;d like to make for those seeking enough info to decide on watching or not watching the "new" series involves a couple of subtle concepts called family and wisdom (or alternatively, wise leadership). The original series included truly adult themes such as family and friendship; it is mystifying to those actually "adult" as to why explicit sexual intercourse, drug use, and foul language is supposed to depict adulthood. The original series contained such scenes as an not-seriously-but-still-ill Adama in bed receiving a visit from his small grandson-by-marriage Boxey, who, tucked up beside his grandfather and soundly kissed, proceeds to tell Adama a small-boy version of his own favorite bedtime story.<br /><br />"There once was a shining planet, called..." "Earth," says Adama, recognizing the beginning line of the story he's often told the child. "No, Mushieland (a type of sweet in the series)," replies Boxey. "Mushieland?" asks Adama, voice and expression exactly what you'd expect from an affectionate grandparent both a little surprised and offering encouragement to go on. "It was full of daggets (essentially an extraterrestial dog)," continues Boxey, "but the best of them all was Sire Muffie (the name of his own pet)." "Sire Muffie," Adama repeats, clearly understanding where this is going, and as clearly content, happy with the boy's company. Again, very much real world, real grandparent.<br /><br />A moment later the camera shows the medical technician who's been keeping visitors away so Adama can rest...standing just out of sight listening, smiling. She's pretended to be asleep so the boy could sneak in and give the old man some of the medicine he needs most right then.<br /><br />This is the stuff of reality. This is adulthood. All the "F & S" (reproductive activity and drug sucking) ever shown cannot trump such things on those two counts. It shows when Adama and Apollo --his son-- embrace after Apollo has been out on a dangerous mission. It shows when Starbuck, all choked up and having trouble speaking, sincerely tells the heavily advanced civilization of the Ship of Lights who just revived his dead best friend Apollo "Whatever you want from me, you can have". It shows in the not-too-often, not-too-little use of the term "buddy" between Starbuck and Apollo and Boomer and the trio handclasp colonial warriors use now and then at a difficult or dangerous moment. It shows in the trust evidenced across rank lines, generation lines, and gender lines by people who have worked together, understand each other's strengths and weaknesses, and are committed to each other and to a goal worth reaching out for.<br /><br />Adama led so well precisely because he showed emotion, valued his family, worried sometimes intensely but let others live their lives, cared and managed situations with flexibility but brooked no nonsense, and was fundamentally an older human being saddened by pain but capable of happiness, flawed (without being a mess) but striving to be the best he could. This, too, is reality. There are bad people in this world, but the sort of disintegration into whoring, in-fighting, and drugs touted as "real" by such shows as this ridiculous new rip off are unreal because they show only the worst case most extreme scenario. (Come on, how many disasters have we read about, seen, or been in ourselves in which EVERYONE turned into a sick-minded nit?)<br /><br />My advice? Go for the real thing; ignore the fake stuff.