I got this movie yesterday, after read several comments of this movie being really bad. I am a art and film student, just began to shot my short 15 minutes film and nervous about the final result. I can certainly hope it won't be as bad as this movie is ! I know sometimes in comedy you can't create a really close connection between the actors. However this movie took me to another level... Even in a comedy type of movie, anyone could think that a straight guy recently been blown by a gay guy, and kissed his flatmate and tells him that "If he was gay a little" he would be his boyfriend, could question his sexuality a bit, don't you think? I found this movie very hard to digest, from every point of view you wanna see it. No much to see of Caleb(Scott Lunsford)questioning his sexuality, or even face the fact that he might as well being a bit confuse after all. If there is anything worth in this movie, it has to be the scene where Caleb and Marc(Ryan Carnes) going for a barbecue together at Marc's friends. I was looking forward to see the connection growing between these two guys, and just when you think they are getting there, they decided to get a video together. Then we are taken to another level here when the phones ring and is Caleb's flatmate (Jim Verranos) who can't honestly act (sorry to say this, sounds like a nice guy though) and the very hard to take Gwen, Marc's flatmate. I found her character very annoying to point I couldn't feel any sympathy for her character at the end. The end, I can't began to describe how bad it is. Honestly Gwen and Kyle, deserve one other. I feel sorry for Marc, as he is portrait as the "uncommited gay guy". However we could see that in fact Caleb feels a bit for him after the party they got together and the scene in the video store where Caleb confessed to Marc 'You are just awesome in the piano"....Certainly this is something that if I was directing the movie I would like to explore more. Let's these two guys end together, correct me if I am wrong, but I got the impression that if Caleb didn't move any faster to Marc, was not only because he confessed to be straight, it was because he felt he was betraying his roommate and flatmate Kyle. Very disappointing film it was for me, the end was abrupt and confusing, the acting was at times over the top, specially by Emily Stiles and Jim Verraros, but the scene where Caleb's parents came for dinner is out question one of the worst...!