Odile(Alicia Príncipe) is a young woman just writhing with the desire of sexual embrace. It's only a matter of time before someone(..or multiple someones)would offer their services to her. Often freely sporting her naked flesh, soon a couple discover her from their own hotel bedroom and a sexual rendezvous will commence. What Odile doesn't expect when she takes up an offer to join the couple on a trip to an isolated island estate is the Count Von Karlstein(Daniel Katz)and Countess Wanda Von Karlstein(Carmen Carrión)a wealthy elite who are also into kinky sex with sado-masochistic tendencies. Odile's mistake in trusting in Mario's(Maura Ribera)'s bi-sexual wife(Mari Carmen Nieto)who is the culprit behind her seduction..what Odile does not realize is that when you travel down the road to passion and ecstasy, embracing the sexually free lifestyle she soon excepts with open arms, comes a dangerous price when associating yourself with the wrong person.<br /><br />To be honest, I felt Jesús Franco's "Sexual Story of O" is ultimately about sexual awakening and the dangers of embracing a sexually free lifestyle with just anyone..often is the case, there are repercussions if you have passionate relations with just anyone. In Odile's case, she is "selected" by a woman searching for another without inhibitions or restrictions..some woman who is yearning for the touch of another, whether it be male or female. Odile lets her guard down, because of this attraction and free-spirited delight towards Mari Nieto's seductress. Franco successfully builds their scenes, starting with the eye-contact between Odile and Mario's wife, while we also see that Odile ogles Mario, from their hotel windows..an opportunity is presented, and we watch as Mario's wife makes the first move. Odile could very well turn her down, yet a heart-pounding desire inside both women drives them to accept the passion that awaits them. An three-way commences, as well as a heated lesbian encounter, where Mari Nieto's seductress enters Odile's room ready for action. The last portion of the film has us entering the world of the Count and Countess, where we see how Odile's life will be threatened when their masochistic appetites emerge. Mario, his wife & Odile meet them, there are dinners, and soon Odile is unconscious on a bed as others(Mario's wife and the Count)disrobe and molest her as the Countess looks on, so moved by what she sees that an act of masturbation soon begins. Franco's camera really likes to move in on characters' faces as sexual acts take place showing the pleasure of watching. My favorite sequence, the lesbian encounter in Odile's hotel room couch between her and Mario's wife..Franco's camera really moves in close and both actresses seem to be into the moment, especially a long kiss as their tongues slide and caress. I do feel that "Sexual Story of O" is just that..her sexual experiences which soon leads down a dangerous path.