A company of British soldiers are sent to Bosnia under the auspices of UNPROFOR , the United Nations Protection Force <br /><br />I`ve looked through this page and have been amazed to see the praise WARRIORS has received . I hated this teleplay down to the highly inaccurate points on screen . Yes Muslims were massacred and murdered in central Bosnia in 1993 as shown here , the only thing is that they weren`t murdered and massacred by Serbs , they were murdered and massacred by Croats ! WARRIORS would have you believe that the only people committing war crimes were Serbs. Did anyone remember Martin Bell`s BBC report from 1993 about the massacre in Amichi where scores of Bosnian Muslims woman and children amongst them were rounded up and burned alive ? It was Croats who were responsible for that atrocity and Croats themselves were the victims of Muslim war crimes in the region . Central Bosnia where the British UNPROFOR were based in Travnik , Gornji Vakuf , and Vitez is a region with very few Serbs with the ethnic composition being almost entirely Croat and Bosnian Muslim . It was the scene of the very bloody ( And now forgotten ) " Muslim - Croat war " of 1992 to 1994 . If you think I`m apologising for the Serbs I`m not , try and track down news reports at the time , go into a libary with a large archive and look through newspaper reports from 1992 to 1994 , read accounts like The Fall Of Yugoslavia by Mish Glenny , talk to British soldiers who were there and you`ll find out little of the crimes ( And they were crimes ) were done by Serbs though they were guilty of terrible crimes elsewhere in the region <br /><br />This annoyance is not only down to ignoring facts , it`s also down to director Peter Kosminsky trying to set some hidden agenda . When WARRIORS was broadcast Kosminsky was appearing on every current affairs show saying the role of British and Western forces should be used for humanitarian intervention . Britain and America bombed Serbia to stop Serbs murdering Muslims in Kosovo , Britain and America invaded Iraq to overthrow a murderous right wing secular Arab regime that was murdering Muslims in Southern Iraq . I wonder if Kosminsky was for both these interventions ? It should also be remembered Kosminsky made the anti war documentary THE FALKLANDS - THE UNTOLD STORY about a black and white conflict , so for him to make a pro interventionist drama about a deeply complex war is very hypocritical <br /><br />WARRIORS is only worth watching to see Damien Lewis and Ioan Gruffodd when they were both unknown actors