This film infuriated me enough that I'm not certain I can write sensibly about it. So forgive me if I begin to rant. The thing is, this movie blatantly rips off several movies that I love, including "Harold And Maude," "Pump Up The Volume," "Some Kind Of Wonderful," "Sixteen Candles," "Ferris Bueller's Day Off" and "Rushmore." It is not an homage to these films. It's simple thievery. And not done by an adept thief, but by an amateur. Meaning the thievery doesn't even work.<br /><br />The song "If You Want To Sing Out, Sing Out" was written by Cat Stevens specifically for the film "Harold And Maude" (one of only two songs written for that film, the other being "Don't Be Shy"). In this film it's used twice, the first time as a duet on the piano, just as it's used the first time in "Harold And Maude," which is annoying enough. But the second time, it doesn't fit at all. It's used to end a play - a play that is supposed to be controversial, by the way, but which clearly isn't - written by a student. So Gustin Nash has the student be a thief as well - this poor suicidal character (the suicide attempt, incidentally, is straight out of "Pump Up The Volume," as is Charlie Bartlett's speech near the end and his subsequent arrest - in fact, as he is put into the back of the police car in slow motion, I couldn't help but turn to my friends and say "Talk hard"). So the play within the film ends with a song stolen from a much better film - but doesn't fit at all. Also, they didn't get the lyrics right, but that's insignificant when compared to the larger problems of this movie.<br /><br />If you do decide to see this film, I suggest a way to enjoy it: shout out the title of the movie each scene is stealing from. I'll give you a hint. When the movie begins - and I mean the second it starts - shout out, "Rushmore." You'll be ahead of the game.<br /><br />The first scene is the first scene from "Rushmore." A teenager's fantasy about standing in front of his peers, being successful and leading the way - and then getting shaken out of his reverie by a teacher. Actually, the first several scenes are from "Rushmore." The boy gets kicked out of private school, ends up in public school, but still wears the blazer with the private school emblem on it.<br /><br />But Gustin Nash is not content to steal from just "Harold And Maude" and "Rushmore." We're soon introduced to the bully from "Some Kind Of Wonderful," and - surprise, surprise - he and the main character become friends. And he, like Elias Koteas in the better film, has hidden artistic talent. He can act. So, like in "Rushmore," the bully is in the play at the end of the film. We also have the scene from "Sixteen Candles" where a couple leave a dance to go sit in the backseat of broken car within the building. Of course, before that we're treated to the school bus ride from "Sixteen Candles." That reminds me. There is a school bus sign to let Charlie Bartlett know where to catch the bus, yet no one else gets on at that stop. So why was the sign there? Did the bus always stop there, even when there were no students? Or did they just put the sign up that day for him?<br /><br />Well, this movie is not the worst film I've ever seen. There is actually some good acting in it, especially by Kat Dennings as Susan, Charlie's love interest, and Tyler Hilton as the bully. And of course Hope Davis is always good. And Robert Downey Jr., an actor I love, does the best he can with the material - but he does fall flat in several scenes, particularly a horrible scene involving him waving a gun around next to his pool. I could go on for several pages about all that is wrong with that scene, but I won't. Because I hope by now I've convinced you to stay far away from this film. Don't let this amateur thief have a hit. Let him fade quietly away.