Uncle Sam represents the only non-Maniac Cop collaboration between Larry Cohen and William Lustig, which is a shame. Aside from just making a derivative psycho killer film, it seems obvious that writer Larry Cohen wanted Uncle Sam to have some brains too, which is shown by the attempt to inject a message into the proceedings. Larry Cohen is definitely a huge talent when it comes to entertaining horror movies - films like The Stuff, It's Alive and, of course, Maniac Cop are camp classics if you ask me; but he really should stick to entertainment, as this screenplay is a mess and the 'message' is so jumbled up that I have little idea what exactly it's preaching. The plot follows a young boy who believes that his uncle, who is coincidentally called Sam, is a hero. Uncle Sam was a patriotic, lunatic soldier killed by friendly fire whilst fighting for his country. His body is brought to his sister's place, coincidentally around the time of the Fourth of July celebrations. It's not long before his fellow Americans are abusing their privileges, and Uncle Sam decides to get up and do something about it.<br /><br />It's hard to take a movie about a war veteran zombie seriously, and this is something that Cohen should have taken into account when putting pen to paper. The clear message on show is that war is bad, and there appears to be a backhanded comment about the way America handles people who don't submit to their 'way of life'. However, American politicians can rest easy because the central figure here is murdering people pretty much at random; which saps any weight out of the theme. In my opinion, Cohen should have decided what it is he wanted to write; a slasher, or a film with substance. However, even as a horror film, Uncle Sam falls short. We've got some nice gore scenes on display, but much of the running time is spent on building up the plot with the kid and his admiration for Uncle Sam, and to say the least; it isn't very interesting. The film is very slow to start, with practically nothing happening in the first half of the film. Good sequences are few and far between, but I've got to say I liked the one that saw a stilt-wearing pervert prying into a girl's bedroom and the one that saw someone falling down a hill in a sack race. Neither of those grab you? This film won't either. Uncle Sam fails on every level.