Just in time for The 4th of July we rented this stinker. Yet instead of fireworks we were left with a strip of soggy duds. I guess the producers of this movie didn't think we could make it to Halloween for another Michael Myers movie so they just spun this blatant rip-off. This movie was plagued with all kinds of errors, plot holes and unrealistic happenings.<br /><br />Lets start from the beginning. First of all, did anyone think to question the fact that elementary school was still in session in the middle of July. Of course not, that is why this is a B-movie. What about when they ship Uncle Sam's body home to his sister's house. She proceeds to leave the coffin in the middle of the living room for days like its a damn Christmas tree, and had dinner parties without even acknowledging it. Now are we to understand that Sam only kills people that aren't patriotic? If this is the case then why does he kill everybody. Can you say plot holes in a paper thin plot! And what is with this town? How many murders have to happen before they stop their annual redneck dirt celebration!<br /><br />One of the many whitetrash townies was a child thats in a wheelchair. This kid goes from being an extra in mid-movie to becoming a hero at the end. Probably the most unrealistic story of the movie was how this kid actual became crippled. The story is that he was hurt in some kind of freak firework accident. Now as hard as we try, we can't imagine what kind of firework would leave a kid blind, deformed, confined to a wheelchair with third degree burns...oh and don't forget that the accident left him with a "sixth sense." Did they strap an M80 to his bare spine or what? If this accident was so traumatizing, then why do his parents wait til the 4th of July to take him out. Do they want him to have flashbacks of his near death experience? Also did anybody notice how the other characters in the movie just leave this kid alone on the sidewalk like he's yesterdays trash? This happens quite often. <br /><br />This picnic was just a real bust. The highlight was an extra long potato-sack race through the woods which was plagued with trippable objects and rusty cars (and probably rusty nails). This is a definite potato-sack no-no! One of the teenagers in the race will just do anything to win. He knocks over everybody from toddlers to elderly women just so he can detour off the trail and roll down a hill for what seems like 10 minutes.<br /><br />Enough about the mistakes, lets talk about how the movie had several scenes that were in slow-motion just so they could stretch this piece of garbage into 90 minutes. In conclusion this movie stunk. It was just another recycled slasher movie. The only good part was after the credits when they show an out-take of an actor actually being injured, but you have to sit through a poem that sounds like it was written by a third grader. I'm sure someday Christopher Ogden (Jody) will meet up with Michael Stephenson (Joshua from Troll 2) in group therapy and have a good cry over the fact that they both committed career suicide before they hit puberty. This movie was so bad that afterwards we had to break into our 4th of July fireworks early just so we could blow it up.