It's very hard to really answer this. Am I going to compare this to a mainstream slasher like Friday The 13th, or an independent such as Bloody Murder? The movie was more or less A fan film, in the vein of the Friday The 13th fan films. The movie is very well put together, the editing is surprisingly good and the directing is also pretty solid. The movie flowed really well, and the setting helped that out a lot. I loved the setting. Usually when you see low budget camp slashers, it's rarely set at an actual camp-- usually in the woods under a tent. The blood, gore and deaths were really good, somewhat bloody and very well executed. I applaud whoever did the special make-up effects. Lastly, I loved all of the homages to 80's camp slashers (mostly Friday The 13th). In a way it was a bit overdone for a practical slasher movie, but it was warmly welcomed.<br /><br />There is a handful of things that either I disliked, or hit me the wrong way. First off the acting was about a 2/10-- even for a Sub Rosa picture. At times you could barely hear the people talk, I had to constantly turn the volume up for one scene, and then back down for the next. Again, it really doesn't take a lot away from the actual film. I really hated the twist ending, and the movie was just too predictable. The last 12 minutes of the film for me was a waste. The last complaint on my list is the "killer" Victor. He was not intimidating in the least, I hated his outfit. I can understand wanting to have a Jason-like killer, but please... no more hockey masked killers. Most definitely not in army fatigues sporting a mullet. I thought the killer was corny, plain and simple. The voice, the look, the entire scene where he is chatting with the local loon.<br /><br />From minute one the movie for me was enjoyable, at least minimally. The movie was a bit too much like Friday The 13th. We have a counselor fixing up a camp, another who is an artist and painting (ala Alice in Friday The 13th), a camp cook named Pam (as in Pamela Voorhees?), who not only lost her lover, but the lover is the presumed killer. Then we have the local loon (just as Crazy Ralph did in Friday The 13th 1 and 2.) who warns the new counselors. Then we have the lake, the setting, and the killings, all very much like the aforementioned movie. This movie really should have been released as a fan film, and not a legitimate release. Not because it is at all bad, but because there are way too many Friday The 13th fans out there who really are stubborn and ignorant when it comes to movies using the "formula", not to mention psycho horror movie fans who spend every minute of their day on message boards crap-talking movies. I thought the movie was a pretty solid independent movie, and a really nice fit on the Sub Rosa Studios label. The movie was enjoyable, and I personally recommend it for people who have seen and liked movies like The Undertow, Bloody Murder, Camp Utopia, Memorial Day & Friday The 13th: Revenge fan film.