Dodge City (1939): Errol Flynn, Olivia De Havilland, Bruce Cabot, Alan Hale, Frank McHugh, Anne Sheridan, Victor Jory, John Litel, Henry Travers, Henry O'Neill, William Lundigan, Bobs Watson, Guinn Williams, Gloria Holden, Georgia Cane, Douglas Fowley, Charles Halton, Ward Bond, Cora Whiterspoon, Russell Simpson, Monte Blue, Hank Bell, Clem Bevans, George Bloom, James Burke, Nat Carr, Horace B. Carpenter, Spencer Charters, Tom Chatterton, Richard Cramer, Jim Farley, Thurston Hall, Robert Homans, Vera Lewis, Milton Kibbee, Lilian Lawrence, Pat O'Malley, Henry Otho, Francis Sayles, Guy Wikerson....Director Michael Curtiz, Screenplay Robert Buckner.<br /><br />The year 1939 was a big year for movies (Gone With The Wind, The Wizard of Oz, Goodbye Mr. Chips) and this "Old West" film from director Michael Curtiz was but one of two of his films that were in theaters that year to great acclaim; the other being Private Lives of Elizabeth And Essex with Bette Davis. Errol Flynn had achieved Hollywood stardom with "Adventures of Robin Hood" opposite Olivia De Havilland, who was herself emerging as an actress. Hollywood at the onset of World War II was enamored of Flynn and De Havilland and they starred in various films together. In "Dodge City", we find ourselves in Kansas, 1866, right after the Civil War has ended. The small cattle town of Dodge City is a lawless, dangerous and unhappy place, controlled by a corrupt Sheriff (Bruce Cabot). It's up to our hero Errol Flynn (as Wade Hatton) to turn things around and save the day. Olivia De Havilland portrays his love interest, Abbie Irving, a beautiful and resourceful prairie-born-and-bred girl whose brother Joe (Frank McHugh) is reckless and is eventually killed by Wade. This puts a damper on the relationship between Wade and Abbie but after she takes a job as newspaper writer and spends more time with Wade, the two fall in love. Before long, the bad guy/guyss are defeated and Wade becomes the town's new mayor. This film is possibly bland and predictable next to other Westerns that have stood the test of time (Giant, Hondo, How The West Was Won) but it has some good aspects and was a beloved Western in its day. Filmed in Technicolor at a time when it was rare to see films in color, the cinematography (by Sol Polito who worked for Warner Bros and for Curtiz's films is very beautiful, owing to the fact it was filmed outdoors in Kansas-like landscapes and realistic-looking sets. The music is by Max Steiner, who worked like crazy on dozens of films for Warner Bros. This film represents a kind of flower of the Hollywood studio system, as far as Westerns. Errol Flynn is superb, Olivia De Havilland is lovely and there is enough action (train and stagecoach race, bar fights, gun duels, etc) to perfectly fit into a classic, high-calibre Western. If you enjoy Errol Flynn (he did his own stunts at a time when no one did) and Olivia De Havilland, this film is highly enjoyable. But despite the historic setting, you will not learn much about post-Civil War America. In fact, the whole thing suffers from stereotypes of the Old West: the vulgar but good-hearted saloon girl, the good cowboy vs the evil sheriff, etc. This is a film that was meant to take you back to the Old West purely for entertainment.