This is a terrific Hollywood Western that surprisingly stars the Tasmanian, Errol Flynn. When I think of Western heroes, I generally DON'T think about them starring someone from "Down Under", but this really wasn't a problem. Flynn was just fine.<br /><br />For me, part of the reason the film worked was its marvelous supporting cast. My favorite of Flynn's leading ladies, Olivia DeHavilland, is back and Flynn gets TWO side-kicks--Alan Hale and Guinn "Big Boy" Williams. Frank McHugh plays a rather restrained (for McHugh) supporting role as a newspaper man--in probably one of his best performances. Bruce Cabot plays an excellent bad guy and there are many, many more Warner regulars that make this a star-studded and familiar type film. Oddly, you practically don't even notice Ann Sheridan despite her getting fourth billing--she sings nicely enough but doesn't have much to do in the film. In addition to all the stars, you can really tell Warner Brothers pulled out all the stops because they secured the directorial services of a Hollywood Heavyweight, Michael Curtiz AND they filmed the movie in Technicolor--a relatively rare thing for 1939.<br /><br />The plot involves the widespread lawlessness that come to dominate life in this cattle town. When Flynn and his two buddies return to the town after a long absence, they are shocked to see that cattle tycoon Cabot has practically turned the town into his own private hellhole. The citizens live in terror and convince Flynn to become their new sheriff. There is so much more to the plot than that--including a subplot involving Miss DeHavilland and her brother. But, finding out how this all unfolds is something best left to you.<br /><br />By the way, the very end of the film is one of the few instances where they obviously set it up for a sequel. Flynn gets a telegram after he cleans up Dodge City begging him to now do the same for Virginia City and he and Olivia and his friends all announce their intentions to head there. However, despite bringing back most of the exact same cast in the movie VIRGINIA CITY only one year later, is really isn't a sequel at all--just the same formula rearranged quite a bit! Miss DeHavilland is inexplicably absent and this time Errol and his pals are not Confederate war veterans but secret agents working for the dang Yankees!! It's really a shame it wasn't a sequel, as this followup film could have been a lot better if it had taken that route as its predecessor.<br /><br />Finally, now that I think about it I did have one very, very minor quibble with the film. When I saw the child actor Bobs Watson in the film as "Harry Cole", I figured correctly that he was "dead meat". That's because this cute actor seemed to die in almost every film I've seen him in. His death scene in BOYS TOWN is almost legendary and he was also the cute little goner in ON BORROWED TIME--it seems his specialty was dying on film! So, when I see him, I know not to care much about him or I'll just have my heart broken in the end!!!