What a farce. I think Joe Eszetheras got out his first draft of Basic Instinct and gave this to the producers and they loved it. They probably did what all execs do that think they have taken a proven formula and try to use it again. They laugh and think that they can use it again and people will eat it up. The only problem is, William Friedkin is not Paul Verhoeven, Linda Fiorentino is not Sharon Stone, David Caruso is not Michael Douglas and Jade is a very bad clone of Basic Instinct. But there are so many familiar similarities in these two films that it makes you cringe watching them. Fiorantino is a psychiatrist, so was Stone. Caruso is a cop, so was Douglas. Caruso drove a Mustang, so did Douglas. They both take place in San Francisco so that they can have a car chase over lots of hills and almost destroy both cars in the process. There are lots of underground sexual practises in both films. And they both try to be sexy. And both open with a violent murder of a very improtant figure. I honestly can't believe that the producers would buy this and then spend 50 million on it with a B cast. I'm not one of those people that thinks that Caruso is a bad actor, but I certainly don't think that he is big enough from a TV show to open a film, and if I, as a casual film fan can figure that out for myself, then why can't powerful movie executives? It just makes no sense to me. Caruso has charisma and he is quite good in this role, but he should be happy sticking to supporting roles. He just doesn't have a name to kickstart a film. As for the director, when was was the last time that he made anything that was good? I honestly believe that he got lucky when he made The Exorcist although I do think that The French Connection was pretty good. But that was 20 years ago. Maybe he has lost his touch. <br /><br />Jade is boring, uninteresting, slow and laughable. You want to figure out who the killer is? You should really have two guesses. Find out who has the biggest names in the film and consider how much screen time they have. One has two scenes and the other is in it quite a bit but just hangs around in the background. Of course there is the "surprise" ending that will just "shock" you as much as Sixth Sense ( yeah right!!!!!!!!) Jade is a really bad film and it is not worth your time. It is laughable and silly and the only thing that I kinda of enjoyed was when I realized that Caruso and Crenna were once in a film together 13 years before this one. That was First Blood. It was probably funny when they first met on the set after all that time. Back then Crenna had more of a name, after all he was Trautman. Caruso was just Mitch. Now Caruso is trying to make a name for himself with this film again. I don't think it will work. Other than that small piece of trivia, there is nothing to like abou this film. It is worth avoiding.