I'm the sort of guy who stays behind to read the closing credits of a movie . I'm also the sort of guy who makes a note of who the producer , director and screenwriter is . I guess that's the difference between the average IMDb user and the average movie watcher . The movie watcher is only interested in the genre of the movie and who stars in it and very little else . Being a regular contributor to this site means I notice names average movie watcher has little interest in . The downside to this is that a name appearing on the credits can prejudice my view of a film <br /><br />Take JADE for instance which was written by Joe Eszterhas . Did my knowledge of Eszterhas mean that I think this movie is very similar in tone to BASIC INSTINCT whereas it's not and any comparison lies in my own biased knowledge of the screenwriter , or is JADE genuinely similar to BASIC INSTINCT ? Certainly this is a movie that seems to have been produced with the same market trend for erotic thrillers that were being made at the time , with the worst one being that one with Madonna and Willem Defoe <br /><br />The plot revolves around a murder and a senior DA is brought in and the main suspect is a femme fatale with dubious sexual tastes . Cue lots of sexual intrigue , sleazy deviants and plot twists , few of which are convincing . And being the sort of guy who makes notes of who the director is I couldn't help noticing that William Friedkin is the guy who made THE FRENCH CONNECTION a film famous for a car chase . We get to see a car chase here which ends in the death of several million Chinese . If someone is thinking of doing a bio-pic on Chairman Mao they could do worse than hire Friedkin as the director ! <br /><br />I will say a couple of good things about JADE . The first is that Linda Fiorentino is very well cast as Trina Gavin who just oozes an understated smouldering sexuality , she's far better than than Sharon Stone in BASIC INSTINCT and a million miles better than Madonna in BODY OF EVIDENCE . Secondly I just love the very haunting quasi Celtic song The Mystic's Dream by Lorenna McKennitt . But apart from that JADE isn't really worth going out of your way to see