Difficult to parcel this chaotic, incoherent piece of kiddie-corrupting garbage into discrete movements, but let's give it a try. In the first part, alien Meeko is endlessly tortured and mutilated by American scientists while his pal Nukie wanders around South Africa and mutters. In the second part, Nukie gets to know some talking monkeys, humorous tribesmen and their cute kids, a nun, a drunk, and Steve Railsback (probably also drunk). In the third part, Meeko is first hypnotized by, then befriends a talking computer, while Nukie disco dances. In the fourth part, the 'witch doctor' tries various strategies to kill Nukie, including running around in fast motion. In the fifth part we sit around absolutely for ever waiting for the movie to end, and the taking monkey licks the snot that has been running down Nukie's face for the whole movie. Throughout, the actors either shriek each others' names for minutes at a time, or talk and look like they've been hypnotized by a computer too. The aliens' mouths don't move, and their rubber limbs crumple and squeak when they are touched. I'm guessing Pakleppa got brought in after writer Odendal botched the job; it appears to have been edited by a lumberjack with the spins. Actually copyright 1989, which is important: not just because this is exactly the kind of film that sits around for four years before it gets released, but because it means that this South African production was completed before, not after, Mandela got out of prison. This means that the stuff about how the bloodthirsty tribesmen should heed the moral warnings of the wise nun were symptoms of apartheid in its decline, not impositions of the World Bank. Another advertisement for Western enlightenment occurs when a snake bites one of the kids and his brother cleans the wound; Railsback insists on taking him to the hospital so he can receive competent treatment; when he asks the nurse how the kid is doing in the next scene, she goes "I have no idea - but I cleaned the wound." Three cheers for whitey!