Let me start by saying, I know that you have to alter and omit scenes from a novel when adapting it to the silver screen. However, it is not necessary to take a chain saw to what can easily be debated as the best book in the series. Half-Blood Prince is key to setting up the final, now two, movies and this version missed the mark. Now the major novel plot points are there, Harry learns about Voldemort's past, Draco struggles with his chosen task and Snape does kill Dumbledore but much of the set-up plot and subplots have been completely omitted. For fans out there that have read the book will get a strange feeling in their gut just a few minutes in.<br /><br />After the Deatheater attack on London the muggel minister is supposed to receive a late night visit. Omitted! During the time spent at the Wesley's prior to the school year there is supposed to be a blast from the past and news of an upcoming marriage. Omitted! So just minutes into the feature many of the actual fans should start to wonder if something fishy is going on. After the duration of the film all of the omissions are topped off by the big daddy of them all. There is no funeral for the deceased headmaster. How can that be? it is easily the 2nd biggest moment in seven novels, next to the climax when Voldemort is killed. Additional ommisions: Many of Dumbeldore's Voldemort memories Any of Snape's interaction as the Defense against the Dark Arts instructor<br /><br />Proper development of the Snape Good Vs. Evil plot Quitich cup match, unless that is the match shown in the movie but you couldn't tell The alterations in the film are also a huge let down. Unfortunately our friendly writers decided that it would be wise to alter the first kiss of the future Mr. and Mrs. Potter. I cannot even wrap my head around why writers would think fans wouldn't notice. I'm not even going to get into, beyond a mention, of the two biggest changes. When the headmaster gets killed it needs to be word for word from the novel, enough said. Since they felt it necessary to not shoot the funeral I guess they felt it would be fine to end with our three heroes together instead of Harry walking off after breaking up with Ginny. Those are Huge! Now before I continue to rag on the choices of the writers I will say that HBP is visually stunning to a level above the previous films and what they did put into the script works for the film. Only those who have spent the time to read the novel will notice the major issues with this film. For entertainment value alone it was a good movie. Please to not destroy Deathly Hallows the way this edition was destroyed.