A Nordic slasher. Who would have thought such a film would ever see the light of day? Though this goes by some of the rules of slasher flicks, something's missing for it to be a genuine slasher. It's hardly gore, false scares or daft teenagers... heck, there's some of all of that within the first five minutes, *and* gratuitous nudity to boot(something that is a rarity in the newer slashers, but somewhat dominant of the older ones, or so I've been told). The plot is something of a mess(and seemingly stitched together through various other slasher plots), with subplots and back-story all over the place, little, if any, of it providing much other than a way to pass the time to get this past the minimum length requirement of a feature film. I would be lying if I claimed that I understood even half of the characters actions. There are definite problems with character development, as well... in fact, it hardly seems to exist, except for possibly one character. I found myself having trouble telling them apart(strange, due to how few there are), though that did get easier as the movie goes along(for obvious reasons... a monumentally strong hint would be which genre film it is). The dialog, acting and editing are amateurish, but they(well, the last two, at least) do show signs of legitimate attempts made for more than that, which can't always be said. The effects are clearly cheap and mostly, the camera simply covers this up, which works OK(better than bad effects paraded in plain sight). The cinematography is fair; somewhat experimental but often there are too few or too bad angles, and I far too often found myself wondering what was going on or who was doing what. This was shot on DV(as opposed to film or HD), and while the film does show, I think they did fine with this format, one I myself have had the pleasure and good fortune of working with. The sound is somewhat uninspired, with rock music(a rather unlucky habit that seems to have formed recently, with low-budget slashers) in the chase scenes. Sound effects are terribly exaggerated, making for close to comic death and suspense scenes. All in all, I enjoyed the slasher elements of this, but that's about it. I recommend this only to big fans of slashers who can lower their expectations and enjoy a discount version of what you're used to. 3/10