I broke my conviction on seeing this movie when my eleven-year-old insisted on seeing it for a buck. Will Ferrel's Land of the Lost isn't even worth that. True, the Saturday morning staple of the 1970's had its own cheesiness in special effects, and acting. But it did have some good stories. It was good sci-fi for kids. The 2009 Incarnation makes up for special effects, but cannot recapture the magic of the initial vision of Sid and Marty Kroft. Will Ferrel plays Rick Marshall, a scientist who believe tachyons, or sub-atomic particles, can cross time and dimension rifts. He is laughed on The Today Show and is discredited. That is until he meets young Holly, a naive scientist who puts stock in his theory. To test the tachyon machine, they go on a river tour with an out-of-luck, dimwitted cave-ride tour owner, Will. Of course, they fall down the waterfall into the Land of the Lost where Pakunis, Sleestaks, and dinosaurs all roam. What is truly sad is the state of humor. While the television show did have its share of cheese, it took itself seriously to really try to entertain a young audience. However, this debacle aims at humor, and misses the target big-time. Will Farrel is over-rated, often playing the same naive, innocent schmuck he plays in all his movies. He is limited and cannot try anything else. The script itself, along with Brad Silberling's direction is the trump card, though. The humor relies on constant potty jokes that are even too lame for kids and pre-teens. Cha-Ka is nothing more than a perverted primitive primate, as well as Will. Enik is brought in, as well as the Zarn in a new, but idiotic way. While the dinosaurs looked real, and the Sleestak had a look that was less hokey than the show, it is obvious they both served as eye candy for a movie not even good enough to suck (I've finally come to the point of using the word "suck" in a movie review). Moreover, where were some of the other dinosaurs. We had Grumpy and Alice, but no Dopey, Spike, or Spot. I heard Wesley Eure (the original Will) and Kathy Coleman (the original Holly) had cameos in the movie, but the scenes were cut. Do you know why? It is obvious producers realized how bad it was and they needed something to get us to buy or rent the DVD. I have a much better idea: wait until someone downloads the scenes to You Tube. We just need one person to go out and buy this lame movie on DVD. Any takers? Anyone? Come on I know someone might want to ....