Oh my! I decided to take a chance and rent a DVD from Netflix with this one, Legend of Bigfoot, Capture of Bigfoot and Shriek of the Mutilated. I'm not sure which one was worse. Well, no, that's not true. Legend of Bigfoot (1976, not to be confused with Capture of Bigfoot -- 1979, which also went by that title) was so bad I couldn't finish it. The other three merely left me scratching my head, amazed that I grew up in the 1970s and somehow turned out normal.<br /><br />SPOILERS AHEAD After seeing one film, in which the Yeti was faked to cover a satanic cannibalistic cult, I didn't think a Bigfoot plot could get any more bizarre. I was wrong. A hillbilly and a Bigfoot capturing women for each other to share has to edge out the cannibals for weirdest plot.<br /><br />At least this was the most passable Yeti costume of the four films. (Mind you, that's not saying MUCH!) Long scenes of totally irrelevant sex, a long sequence of interesting but totally irrelevant folk music and some characters whose actions defy logic make this a somewhat typical 1970s B horror flick. Add the asthmatic-sounding heavy breathing whenever Bigfoot is apparently getting reasonably close to anyone, a one-scene appearance by a sheriff who looks more like a Silver Dollar City blacksmith, the annoying habit of the prof and a couple of the bad guys either talking to themselves or thinking out loud to narrate the action and a Bigfoot who is somehow impervious to automatic weapons, and you get a 1.6-rated film.<br /><br />Should I waste ink pointing out plot holes in such a film? Well, maybe. Let's see…the grad student throwing herself at the middle aged professor is a bit much – and her 'you saved my life' remark made no sense at the time. (It would have, had it happened at the end of the film, I suppose.) The prof is being chased by men with a pack of hounds, yet somewhere along the way they disappear. The rich guy funding the expedition is a tad unbelievable. Sure, he wants the creature dead…but he is apparently willing to let his goons kill the prof and the girl to get it? I've seen worse films – even some with much bigger budgets. If one likes B horror with the obligatory semi-nude scenes, flimsy plots and a little gore, this might be worth your while. If you're looking for The Shining … or even Lady Frankensatein, this isn't it!