When I saw this movie, I thought of it as a cheap rip of the Butterfly Effect, but when I saw the year when this movie was released it might be the otherwise. Not that I thought Butterfly Effect was original or extraordinary but I liked it. It had an amount of suspense and a good pace that kept you alert. Then The I Inside looks cheap, dull and boring. I'll outline the plot first.<br /><br />Simon Cable is a reach guy who wakes up in a hospital after being poisoned by his wife. The doctor mentions to Simon that he was dead for a couple of minutes but he recovered ( this is where a gap in his parallel life begins). Physically Simon looks to be healthy, but he suffers from a loss of memory for a period of two years. From here Simon starts to question his past and the reasons he got into the hospital. Somehow he travels back in time to the next day he last remembered, and finds himself in the same hospital after being involved in a car accident ( this he learns in course of the events). By traveling from 2000 to 2002 he sees that changing the past affects the future so he tries to amend things.What things to amend? Well, Simon's brother, Peter, had a fiancé, Clair, which was in love with Simon. Simon deadly injures his brother and covers it as a car crash ( In which he was also involved). Now Simon tries to amend things and tries to save Peter only to see that Clair dies in the same crash. He understands that he has given a second chance, but someone still has to die, so he must choose between his life, Peter's or Clair's. The movie ends the way it has begun and we conclude that he hasn't changed anything: Peter died. The missing part: Ana is a nurse in the hospital that hears ( and tapes ) the last confession of Peter where he tells her that Simon is the one who killed him ( and it wasn't an accident ). Ana blackmails Simon and the gets married to him. After a couple of years Ana decides to kill Simon and leave all his fortune to herself.<br /><br />Now for some discouragement. First of all The I Inside is boring. All the movie occurs in Three or four places, constantly repeating it's scenes. The music is disturbingly awful. Inspide of some known lead actors it looks like it's budget is ... Same characters appear as worker's in the hospital and the first aid in the ambulance.<br /><br />In the recent years, the "puzzle movie" genre is seems to be flooded. some of the movies are good, others replicas or just trash. I don't know whether it's a replica or not but I would definitely put this movie in the trash category.