When one says that an actor is good in every film they are in, no film personifies this more than Bretaigne Windust's 1948 film "June Bride" in which Bette Davis and Robert Montgomery star as former lovers and boss/subordinate. Davis plays Linda Gilman, a no-nonsense editor of a Home and Life type magazine in New York. Robert Montgomery is Carey Jackson, her new writer and former lover. Three years ago the two were almost ready to get married when he got cold feet and walked out on her. Through zany mishaps he ends up working for her three years later, and the two have not lost their attraction to one another. Linda packs up her staff for Indiana to do a cover story for their June issue, covering a wedding in small-town Midwest, U.S.A. Once there, they have to completely transform the house and the people in it, because they do not meet the cosmopolitan standards of these New Yorkers. Along the way, Carey decides to mix things up a bit when he discovers that the bride is marrying the brother of her ex-fiancée, and her sister is actually in love with the groom-to-be. (Get all that?) Complicating things is the fact that Linda and Carey are falling all over each other, rekindling their romance, which is getting in the way of the task at hand.<br /><br />"June Bride" is supposed to be a madcap comedy, but it's just a boring mess. As stated before, there are some actors that are good in every film, and Bette Davis is one of those actors. Her performance was excellent, but the film that she was forced to work in was just plain bad, and her persona in the film hints that she knows it. Robert Montgomery, who is all slapstick in the film without a hint of charm, has absolutely no chemistry with Davis, which leads to a very flat film. The story was dumb, and not charming in the least. Really, the only interesting thing about the film is the director's first name. There's actually not a lot more to say about the film, except that it's too bad that "June Bride" wasn't better, because it was rare for a couple of reasons: It was one of the few Bette Davis comedies and it was one of the few Bette Davis films I had not yet seen. Unfortunately it probably should have stayed that way. 4/10.<br /><br />--Shelly