Having revisited POLTERGEIST just recently, I was startled watching this sequel in just how far it deteriorates in overall quality from one film to the next. Native American mysticism and a crazed cult leader spirit desiring to capture Carol Anne are injected into the story of the sequel where we discover that the Freelings were living above a cavern containing the skeletal remains of a group led by Reverend Kane(Julian Beck)proclaiming the end of time was near..seeing that he was wrong, Kane doesn't allow them to leave. Kane and the restless spirits of his cult wish to have Carol Anne back after tasting what life was like with her presence, not ready to go into the light. Kane is now a demon, pure evil, and the Freelings need assistance from a Shaman in order to defeat him. The Freelings' powerful bond of love will ultimately determine their outcome against Kane, The Beast. The special effects sequences almost border on parody, not at all scary, but more unintentionally hilarious, such as when Robbie's(Oliver Robins)braces go amok or when Steve(Craig T Nelson)swallows a "possessed" worm in a Tequilla bottle, with Kane attempting to use him to harm his family, regurgitating it! This worm starts to grow back into Kane's humanly form! It's quite gross and would perfectly fit in a goofier monster flick, but the POLTERGEIST franchise was supposed to be a more sophisticated horror enterprise, and the remaining sequels just mercilessly ravage what made the first film so good. I couldn't help but wonder what JoBeth Williams and Craig T Nelson felt while making this sequel, an obvious decline in all areas from the first film, from the rather embarrassing plot to the dialogue they are forced to endure. The sequences where the family must go into the other side to stop Kane once and for all just buries the legacy this franchise might've had, but perhaps there shouldn't have been another film anyway. There wasn't lightning in the bottle twice. <br /><br />Heather O'Rourke is still adorable as Carol Anne, Zelda Rubinstein, in a glorifified supporting role, stops by to help the Freelings the best she can(..having delved into the history of what took place in the cavernous dwelling under their house), and Sampson as the Indian shaman is a charming, welcome presence who wishes to bestow wisdom to the family often just confusing poor Steve whose life has fallen on hard times thanks to the spirits which won't leave Carol Anne alone. You have lots of special effects as Kane's supernatural power surfaces when Steve allowed him into the house(..such as an electrical wire and running chainsaw that go berserk)and icky creatures designed by HR Geiger. Geraldine Fitzgerald has a small, but pivitol role as Diane's mother who informs her and Carol Anne that they are all clairvoyant..she serves as a type of protection against Kane. <br /><br />You can just sense that this sequel should've never taken place, merely a cash-in to repeat the success of the far superior original. Kane(..Julian Beck, whose cancer really brings an extra dimension to his character)is quite a memorable menace and this perhaps saves the film from complete crapdom. All the skeletons that reach out to attack(..including a nightmare dragging Diane underground)are effective.