After the events that occur in the first film, the Freeling family is living with Grandma. Though, the supernatural forces won't leave them alone and now they're back and they want Carol Anne. So with help with a Indian guide and dead Grandma the family must battle a ghostly cult that was buried under their old block of land in the first film that will stop at nothing to get what they want.<br /><br />I'm not terribly a big fan of the original, so I wasn't expecting anything big and what I saw was a real mixed bag, just like the original. This film basically sets up what we already saw in the first film, with an opening that's rather interesting, but it suddenly falls into the original's formula with some idea's being changed around (It's no longer the TV, but a toy phone that's the medium to the spiritual world) and a feeling of deja vu. Though, it's not as engaging, it does lack the panache of the original and the special effects aren't as imaginative this time around, but still it's the film's strong point. The technical effects don't take over the plot and aren't overused which is a good thing. The make-up and special effects are visually good and that's especially when it picks up towards the end. It yields great monster designs and superb trick work and illusions are created. While the solid score by the experienced Jerry Goldsmith is another key factor of the film. It's rather haunting in keeping such an alarming mood. As well it was beautifully shot. There are some great scenery shots that overshadow some of the scenes and what's actually going on. What it sorely lacked was atmosphere, but otherwise it's mildly entertaining.<br /><br />Some problems that the film faced are that there are too much dwelling on what happened in the first film, the film's pace is quite slow, rather humourless, some rather meaningless scenes, a lot of talking that has no real interest and overall it's rather a pointless sequel with no meaning to the narrative when it finally finishes. It's not bad, but it tries too hard and becomes dramatically flat. It lacks the freshness and creativity to make it standout.<br /><br />In this one we actually see the other dimension and also we see the evil demons or spirits in physical form. It's a slow burner to begin with, as there are interesting theories thrown in and the story is more of mystical journey for the family. Meaning that it's great to be a family and that love keeps them together and stops evil from tearing them apart or something like that. The plot idea is interesting enough, but the story that we get doesn't take full advantage of it. There are some lively action and some mildly evocative and intense moments after 45-minutes or so. These short pockets of thrills go for shock valve (the worm scene). While the final battle against evil turns out to be a disappointing anti-climax and the lacklustre ending was just too sweet and cheesy to comprehend.<br /><br />The performances are nothing special, but just rather sound. Craig T Nelson, JoBeth Williams, Oliver Robbins and Heather O'Rourke aren't bad, but the family weren't as likable this time around. Zelda Rubinstein isn't as annoying like in "Poltergeist", with a far less eccentric performance, but when on screen she's rather tame. Will Sampson as the spiritual Indian Taylor who helps out the family comes across as being intriguing, but his character comes across as wasted. Julian Beck as the deliciously evil spirit Kane gives a generally creepy and uneasy performance. His character would be the most interesting, but his presence is far and between.<br /><br />Its running time is rather short in length, but because of that it kept my full interest. It's not a must see, but if you enjoy the original you'll probably find something to like.