Two weeks prior to me writing this user-comment, the legendary Spanish actor, writer, director and reputed sleaze-ball Paul Naschy – a.k.a. Jacinto Molina – passed away from cancer. Even though I disliked and heavily bashed a lot of the films he starred in, including this "The Werewolf and the Yeti", I was still a big fan of his work and charismatic appearance and I hope that he'll rest in peace in the hereafter. <br /><br />Anyway, unlike the cool titles such as "Blue Eyes of the Broken Doll", "A Dragonfly for Each Corpse" and the more recent and criminally underrated "Rojo Sangre", this clearly wasn't the best film to pay a personal little tribute to the departed euro-exploitation star. "The Werewolf and the Yeti" is an incoherent and inept mishmash of half- elaborated ideas and generally speaking just a load of rubbish, in fact. What happens if you sent a wolf man out on an expedition to the Himalayas to hunt down the abominable snowman? A very exhilarating and pleasantly deranged exploitation highlight, you'd expect, especially if you also throw in some lurid vampire women in a cave, evil Tibetan smugglers and an ancient myth about Genghis Kahn (*). Wrong! This actually is an infuriatingly boring and imbecilic film. None of Naschy's "Hombre-Lobo" flicks I've seen so far are any good, but this is really bottom-of-the-barrel, with unfinished story lines and truly pitiably poor production values. The werewolf transformations are laughable and the special effects deserve a poor zero out of ten rating. It's basically just a series of Naschy's face gradually getting hairier. It even somewhat looks like he's having a severe heart-attack whenever he transforms. Unless I'm mistaken, I also didn't spot any Yetis, Sasquatches, Bigfoots or whatever type of snowy monsters until very late in the film. And even if it does appear, it's very difficult to tell the difference between the werewolf and the yeti. Wasn't the abominable supposed to be snow-white? The dialogs are painfully poor and the even the sleaze footage is likely to put you to sleep. By the way, you know how to recognize a film scripted by Paul Naschy because he always foresees a sequence of him having sex with beautiful woman that would usually never fall for him. Mostly, he even has sex with multiple women at once. <br /><br />(*) I was quite intoxicated when watching this film, so it's possible that I made some of those story lines up myself. In that case; my apologies.