This film stands out while looking at the DPP list of Video Nasties due to its wacky title. However, that's not to say that the film itself is one of the more interesting on the list...as it's actually just a collection of ideas, mercilessly thrown together with barely any coherence or point. Many of the ideas in the film have lead to good films in their own right; here we have a plot involving a werewolf curse (well done in The Wolf Man), a hunt for the yeti (well done in The Abominable Snowman) and a sorceress (well done in many fairy tales). However, it all feels very random and the plot running through all these ideas fails to be interesting at every turn, thus making the film very boring indeed. The story itself takes place after an expedition into the Himalayas to find living proof of the mythical Yeti. Renowned adventurer Waldemar is part of the expedition, and the story picks up when he is captured by two demon women. After being turned into both their sex slave and a werewolf, he is set free to roam the surrounding land.<br /><br />The plot sounds like it's going to make for a very interesting movie, which makes it all the more disappointing that this isn't. The Yeti is a creature that has lead to a load of rubbish films, including fellow Video Nasty 'Night of the Demon', and family flick 'Bigfoot and the Hendersons'. I've got to say that I came to realise during this movie that I don't like movies set in the snow very much; the location doesn't seem to make for a very interesting setting. The film is notable for the fact that it was written by and stars Jacinto Molina; also known as Paul Naschy, who is apparently a big name in Spanish horror cinema, although this the first film that I've seen from him. Despite the fact that this film was banned in the UK back in the eighties, it's not very gory; thus making it one of the disappointing entries on the list that didn't really deserve to be banned. The only real good (or bad, depending on how you look at it) scene sees a young girl skinned. Overall, I really can't recommend going out of your way to find a copy of this film. It's not easy to come by, but thankfully I didn't have to spend too much to see it.