I've decided that it is no longer necessary to watch any more starship troopers movies. It is so far gone its disgusting. i don't know who's idea it was to make a third movie after the fantastic flop of the second, what did that sell? 4 copies maybe? i digress, they have strayed so far from the mentality that has made the starship troopers "universe" that its hardly a sequel. I regret to say that I expected for the movie to not be that bad, the return of Rico brought my hopes up only to be dashed away in a spectacular blast of suck. The bugs have been brutally destroyed in every possible way, i remember the good old days from the first movie, when a bug was so intent on killing its prey that it would try by all means to kill it, focusing solely on it and nothing else. In the third installment in a regrettably decomposing series the bugs don't even have a target it feels. In a scene they walk by a soldier and cut his throat in mid step then stem on a mans head. Yet it keeps on chugging. The digital quality of the bugs was just appalling. It was like looking at a video game from the 90,s. I don't know how a movie can actually DEGRADE its digital quality to actually get worse from the original which came out IN THE 90'S, and having bugs that are stupidly specialized, like the "Grenade" bug and the stupid fricken scorpion thing that shouldn't exist.Not to mention the terrible sound effects, it was almost as if someone had overlapped the same sounds and used sounds from 30 years ago to fill in space. And the troopers!! To the point that one wont even kill a single bug without the helping hand of a nanny aiming at it for him! I don't think a trooper killed a single bug in that movie, all of it was done by main characters. I have to say though, one of the biggest letdowns between the terrible CGI, fourth grade acting and sound effects would have to be the guns. I remember when i first saw the original starship troopers movie. I was obsessed with they're guns. They were the coolest for me! Keeping in mind that i had only seen guns in games like Golden Eye or Perfect Dark for the 64. They were a beast of a gun! it pumped out shells like no tomorrow, had a frickin shotgun stapled on the bottom, and it sounded awesome! Then came the "Marauder" guns. They looked more like over-sized toys than weapons, with a barrel that u could fit a tennis ball in, and a stupidly shaped design, it didn't look futuristic, it looked like a toy and i felt sorry for those poor individuals that had to use that misshapen device when they acted in the movie. So, thats it. There isn't a single good thing i have to say about this movie. It was terrible, i consider it a monumental feat that i even watched the whole thing in the first place.