Alas we have some Indian director who knows how to make a good film. Offcourse I exaggerate but lets face it bollywood releases a record breaking number of films week by week. Of those 8 or 9 movies perhaps you get one that is even worth a look, if you're lucky. So why is that? It's because films are aimed at lower/middle class traditionalist uneducated people who cling onto whats familiar. Offcourse we are all like that in a way. Slowly but surely Bollywood directors are realising that there is an even bigger market outside India. I must admit that at times Ive been frustrated by Bollywood film making antics. There is so much unique and beautiful material on which many great films can be made. Indeed there have been attempts with films such as Dil Se, however I have not been impressed with the execution of a potentially good film idea. Theres is too much of a temptation for these directors to turn the film into a media circus, cheesy songs are one medium for this. Why am I reviewing the state of Bollywood industry instead of the film, one might ask? Well after watching this movie and loving it, my intial thought was : was this film great because it was different and a break from the cheesy nonsense that bollywood has thrown my way before. Or was this film great because it was actually a great film. After scanning the film memory fresh in mind I decided it was the latter. Never have I seen such articulate cinematography. So much attention being paid to not only the materialistic side of the film but also the character depth. The three characters in the movie are great. As with all good films, the plot is simple. What makes a really good film i've always believed is the strength of the characters on film, How well they come across the screen and how believable they are. This film achieves all these factors and more. The film is about the changing lives of three college freinds, their relationships and how these relationships develope as they get older. The film doesn't actually deal with that many issues, two in the main, Love and adventure. How original is that you might say, well I'd say it is very original since the approach taken to handle these issues is very unique. Aamir Khan as always has done really well, and taken to the new style of character with ease, the two supporting actors Akshay Khanna and Saif Ali Khan are brilliant. The casting director has done well to cast these two in their particular roles, as it suits them perfectly; Akshay as a serious thoughtful character and Saif as bubbly and funny airhead (reminded me of Matt Le Blanc's Joey character in the US comedy sitcom Freinds) This film I have to say has very few flaws, and I'd like to think I can spot them, infact I canot remember even one at this particular moment in time. Even if there are the film overall is an absolute beauty. I strongly recommend you pay a visit to the nearest cinema that is showing it, sit back and enjoy you'll love it.