Being a huge fan of movies moving to Hollywood technology, I was really excited to see Dil Chahta Hai. Hearing it was a wonderful movie with excellent acting and realistic situations, this was one of the few movie I saw excitedly without my favorite actor in the movie. Once I saw the movie, I was happy that it was a wonderful movie with excellent acting, but the realistic situations kind of threw me off. One makes it worse that a movie like KANK with a real life issue that exists with many couples was rejected by the audience due to the fact that it is too realistic. This movie had realistic characters with realistic emotions who were written very well, but no realistic moment where you can say that is a mirror of my life. <br /><br />The movie is excellent however. The movie had a story that one could relate to. The movie also was complimented with great acting. The real star of the movie is without a doubt Aamir Khan. We all know why he won Best Actor, however I felt his performance here was more superior in this movie rather than in Lagaan. The next star is Saif Ali Khan who never really proved himself as an actor. But he really dramatically improves in this movie. This role was not easy. His comedy was based on his timing and emotions. And he achieves. Last, but not least was Akshay Khanna. He plays his role maturely, but his character seems is weakly written. Out of the females, the main star was Dimple Kapadia. She looks the part, acts well, and deserved Best Supporting Actress nomination. Priety Zinta's character never demands anything despite the sympathizing. Sonali Kulkarni is given a larger role than Preity's. She lends good support. The supporting cast is perfect. <br /><br />The movie is given an American feel as witnessed in the songs. My favorite song is Koi Kahen Kehta Rahe (Someone Says, Let Them Say) which is danced superbly by the three leads. The spoofed song, Woh Ladki Hai Kahan (Where is that Girl), is fun in watching and another excellent song. The song Jaane Kyon (Why So?) is very pleasant and you also get a nice scenery of Sydney, Australia. The title song is pleasant and plays a good background music. Tanhayee (Lonliness) is picturized perfect. The only dull umber was Kehti Hai Yeh Rut which got boring despite the fact you see such a nice painting of Dimple. However one flaw important is that the ending is very loose. Out of all characters, it was Siddhart's (Akshaye Khanna) story that was poorly written. It was a very illogical ending. But this movie is almost perfect, and definitely worth a watch.