From the acting on impulse as some have said to the manipulating of the office of the president, to propel a sideways political agenda, to racial-profiling, finding, weeding out those who wish to kill Americans and dance and party all night afterward, I say, this was interesting. <br /><br />Although, there were no good, Bush-isms. Like "We need to 'thinkify' on the threat of terror in America, as well as terror on it. Or other Bush lead in, speech banter. This movie complete with CGI Special effects was an entertainment. Those who were running from place to spot scrambling to do damage to the United States, show the unrest in the world, that was there, before we were even a country. Let's face the music here, we have Americans that seem to care more about the terrorists welfare, than they do about other Americans. Let's get down to it, there are approx. (As reported by a media outlet)19% of Americans who trust Muslims, that they are a 'religion of peace'. Talk about an organized religion. They are organized against the U.S. and always have been. The other problem with some people who identify with so-called peaceful Muslim's is that the radical extremists will never be stopped by the so called--' peaceful' ones anyway. And they are not going to negotiate with a President and remain peaceful. It will end and they will resume seeking bloodshed, non-Muslim's, that's right. <br /><br />The president aside from the footage of Bush himself was a little weak. Whereas one might say I had to remind myself this wasn't real, another was saying this was a special-effects soggy lunch. On a rainy day.<br /><br />The players themselves, from the aides (the actors) where good but could have been better at seeming as if they were really in this life and not simply making a 'Phocumentary'. This will not be a seminal work to all who will see this presentation. But of those liberals who wish to assassinate the President, this will be a special effects extravaganza-festival for them. However this will remain to others, who have seen more than this movie and have a different understanding of this world in which we live in, an intellectual 'wheelchair' to the Liberal base that doesn't indeed look for the good in America but continues to find a 'Villain' in the U.S. <br /><br />My question is, before 9/11, when there were still three thousand people in one piece, and Bin Laden was offered to President Clinton, on two different occasions, when William passed on taking him, because he said, "We have no business, with Bin Laden." Why did many 'assign' blame to a President who didn't pass on finding the killers and those with them and insisting on bringing them to justice? Why isn't it, instead of getting angry with the (those who have had a crime perpetrated against them) (The U.S.) Many terrorist attacks on the U.S. outside the U.S., on our military bases around the world, at our Embassies around the globe, on our airlines over Scottland, Libya etc etc, etc. <br /><br />Is it correct, that some of the American masses seem to want to lay down and let the perpetrators have their 'way' with us? What is this guilt about? what do you call having guilt when some one commits a crime against you? The guilt of a Fool?! Just as long as we don't offend them. The ones who kill for no reason except for the god of their Kohran. Right? But, regularly they are just nice folks, a religion of peace. A Piece of what? The peaceful Muslims simply cannot stop the violent ones. All peaceful ones can do is talk. Which in the real long run accomplishes....nothing.<br /><br />Why wasn't this movie made with Bill Clinton as the example instead? That would have been a lot more original and fascinating considering the truth of the details concerning the nuclear materials given to Kim Jong Ill, in 1998, to make an energy power plant. Sure. Just look at him now.<br /><br />George W. Bush didn't start this. Even to those who say he 'Lied' that there were no weapons in Saddam's country. No nothing was shipped off to Syria or Iran or any other place, right? Right?! Remember, it took the U.S. with the U.N.s help, six-months to get into Iraq. A lot can happened in one day. It took the U.N. half a year, to make up it's mind. Look at the History, he (President Bush) is simply attempting to finish what had been started, long ago. <br /><br />Look at the History and look into the facts. Soldiers have died in Iraq, yes there was no draft, men and women went voluntary and died in honor for their own country as our fore-fathers, stated "That the tree of Liberty will be sprinkled with the blood of it's patriots from time to time." More people have already been killed this year in drunk driving accidents than all those in Vietnam and Iraq put together. And next year more will be killed and on and on. I must say this in stark contrast, there is no honor in being killed by a drunk on the road. (although those who died most likely have 'honor'. Those who fought in Iraq have honor in fighting for our country, we should never forget. But this movie wanting to kill the President which is what it is really about due to the war in Iraq, should have more truth about this, rather than the empty glorification of the act perpetrated on JFK now transferring it to President Bush (*)