When there is so much propaganda happening in the U.S. right now do we really need a fictitious documentary confusing the truths and facts about government vs. people?! It sets such a truthful tone that it feels like most of the effort of this "documentary" is to nullify all credibility to true documentaries on Bushes real agenda for the world. I give it the worst rating not because it wasn't well done, on the contrary it is executed with perfect timing and very possible outcomes... the only problem is if you make a movie make sure that it is a MOVIE, not a mockery of people's intelligence. I watched this with my wife and we didn't know what this was about and what to expect, we were looking to this for knowledge but as soon as we saw the dates and the assassination of the president we looked at each other and said, what the hell is the point of watching an aftermath of B.S. We got to the end of the film just to see what this turd could possibly bring to anyone, and were very disturbed about all the fake tears made out to be documented, what's the point of getting actors telling you their fake stories when you have real people who have the same exact story (taking away the assassination of Bush of course) but have authentic sorrow, not crocodile tears! we couldn't understand how this even got air time, it has good actors but still you could see that they are ACTORS. There are thousands of true facts that film makers could use to create documentaries on the subject to inform the masses, isn't that the purpose of documentaries, to inform?! just when I thought that the U.S. couldn't get more confusing in their actions, someone decides to make a "mockumentary" further confusing people unaware of what is really going on in the U.S. and easily influenced people. The makers of this movie either have a hidden agenda of their own or they were looking to make a quick buck. If you are ready to lose 90 pointless minutes of your lives that you will never get back, and get your intelligence insulted, then watch this! otherwise steer clear of this awful, horrible "documentary" movie. We hated it with a passion.