CGI has to be one of the worst things to happen to cheap movie-making! Now instead of silly special effects we get Playstation Graphics on the various creatures in every cheap monster movie. The Marabunta Ants are no exception! From far away they look like little black dots that are moving in perfection synchronization. Up close, they look like big plastic ants that you can buy at the Dollar Store in those fake bug bags. Someone writing in another review pointed out that the actors keep getting the names of the little kid mixed up, and it is true! The Indian guy is also Grey Wolf or Red Wolf depending on when they are talking to him. And how about a giant ant hill where people sink into it but there are no ants?? Three people sank into that ant hill, and last time I saw an ant hill, the ants at least come out; especially when they are eating full-sized humans. Does anyone remember "THEM" which is a great ant movie?? Well, THEM used flame-throwers to kill the ants, and that was cool. Here, the ento-moronologist rigs a flame thrower from some kind of toilet bowl cleanser and an enema bag, and the flame is about the same as you can get from any cigarette lighter. The guy lights up his flame thrower (with a tiny little flame) and then from the ground going upwards a flame covers the screen!!! What a bogus effect, especially since you can still see the guy's flame thrower in the background and the little tiny flame on the tip!!! Meanwhile, the entomologist's teacher-friend is shooting the ants with an air gun. NO DUH!!! For real, an air gun! Except she claims she is using magnesium bullets, which in theory should burn like a flare gun. However, in the movie, she is shooting away at the ants, and they keep showing where she is shooting and absolutely nothing happens!!! Apparently somebody forgot to add some kind of CGI smoke or fire. Meanwhile, as the two idiots are walking around the ant logs oblivious to the thousands of ants creeping up on them; their friend in the helicopter is getting eaten alive! Funny that the ants attack a guy on a helicopter and yet the two dorks who are on foot somehow get ignored while they are sticking their hands into ant larvae (looks like rice-pudding) and kicking over the logs which are presumably the center of the community. Marabunta is basically the poorest, dumbest, and most pathetic ant movie ever made. It is an insult to ants everywhere, and to the memory of "THEM" which is a 50 year old movie that had better special effects than this horrible turkey.