This is just an awful awful movie. Let's first start with the plot. The writer and directer are trying to shove about 20 different stories into a a 2 hour movie. There are so many subplots and so many stupid scenes which were not necessary. The movie then ended up doing a casting miracle by getting anybody and everybody that people have heard of and that were stupid enough to do the movie. I mean seriously do you need this many actors to make a good movie. The movie has a habit of straying then coming back on the topic on hand and then straying again. Then there is so much confusion throughout the movie. There might one or two parts where the person might let out a laugh but nothing like Hulchul or Hera Pheri or even Chup Chup Ke. Worst movie of the year and worst possibly of the this decade. Plus the whole movie is shot through a comic book which makes it look so stupid and makes Bollywood look like crap. I mean seriously. When we go through stretches were we have Dhoom, Don, Dhoom 2, and Rang De Basanti and then you get this crap. I mean this is just depressing. Now we have to discuss the actors. OK I look at Shahid Kapoor and I see potential. I mean his movies Fida and Shikar were actually good. Then he makes crap like this which just shows that he is going no where. Then we have Ayesha Takia who in my mind is the worst actor in Bollywood. I mean she has no emotions doesn't know how to act, sucks at dancing and not even that good to look at. She annoys me so much. Then we have the great Vivek Oberoi, who had a bright future after the movies company, Saathiya and Dum. I mean i thought he was the next best thing. Then came Kaal followed by Home delivery, Pyare Mohan, and then Naksha. Wow he screwed himself over. Then the He-man himself comes SUNNY DEOL aka seen that done that. I mean does this guy have any range at all. He plays the same guy/character in basically every movie. I mean at first it was cool, then it become OK this is his thing, and now its just wow your still doing that. While his fellow actors Shah Rukh Khan, Aamir Khan, Salman Khan, and Akshay Kumar and progressed he is still stuck in that some place. It is so depressing to watch him. Then comes Sameera Reddy who probably get lost in Dubai and came onto the set. She was just there, there was no need for her, no lines for her she was just there. Horrible actress although for a second I thought it was Priyanka Chopra only 2 seconds later to have my dreams crushed. OK I'm not gonna go through each actors performance individually so I'm just going to describe the next 7 in 4 words or less. Chunkey Pandey: WTF, Vijay RaaZ: not funny, Johnny lever: annoying, not funny, Paresh Rawal: tries to hard, unfunny, Jackie Shroff: Unnecessay, horrible job. Arbaaz khan: great actor horrible job, Om Puri: WTF!!!. Now who do i have to talk to get 2 hours of my life back?? Is it Ahmed Khan or the writer Neeraj Vora?