Nor apparently, do rifles and Comanches, as the Indians are shown to be willing to fight and kill for them, or conversely, are willing to fight and kill once they have them. I couldn't help thinking while watching, as another viewer commented on this board, that here was a half century early preview of the politics of appeasement that the liberal Democrats are waging during the present day Iraqi War. Let's just give the enemy what they want and go on our way, because then they'll be satisfied and leave us alone.<br /><br />The story, one might surmise, stays in one place literally and figuratively for it's entire run. A broken down Conestoga wagon remains behind for a wheel to be fixed as negotiations get under way as to how to deal with the hostiles. It's unfortunate that the nominal leader of this piece, Jason Clay (Lance Fuller) was the one to waver in his determination to get the wagon through with one hundred Kentucky rifles intact. That resolve was maintained by sidekick Tobias (Chill Wills), shown to be correct when the Comanches force their own hand by shooting their bargaining chip Foster (Jess Barker). Interesting how one can see more clearly when when one's life is on the line.<br /><br />The sub plot of a romantic triangle among Clay, Foster and Amy Connors (Cathy Downs) wasn't particularly necessary for the story, and didn't wind up contributing to the finale. However it allowed for Chill Wills' character to fire off a couple references to how women and rifles don't mix, even if the connection was virtually negligible. It seems to me the run in with the Comanches would have occurred with or without women along for the ride.<br /><br />I don't think it's necessary to be as hard on the flick as other posters for this film have been, but it sure did take a long time to get from Point A to Point B as has been pointed out. Sterling Holloway gets minimal mileage out of his home made still bit, and Wills is mildly entertaining with 'Sweet Bessie From Pike'. It gets a little embarrassing though to see how much confidence he places in his own Kentucky Rifle, especially when he offers up a prayer to help him shoot straight.