Finian's Rainbow did well on Broadway in 1947. But it was about racism, and nobody wanted to make a movie of it. I can't imagine what made Warner Brothers think that in 1968 Finian's time had finally come. Maybe they just wanted to adapt a musical for old Fred Astaire. They made a "bold" decision, or at least I'm sure they thought so, to retain all the racial discrimination stuff. And to give a 1947 musical added appeal for hippie-era audiences they hired Francis Ford Coppola, who was under 30 and could therefore be trusted by hippies. At that point he had directed only two features, a student film which played in theaters and made some money, and Dementia 13, a pretty good horror movie.<br /><br />In a nutshell -- a pistachio would be about right for the depth of this plot, waggish old Irishman Astaire and his daughter Petula Clark, who was older than Coppola, have just arrived in the "mythical" state of Missitucky. They lease some land in Rainbow Valley, which is populated by an absurdly clean-cut bunch of interracial sharecroppers. Finian has stolen a crock of gold from the leprechauns, and means to bury it in Rainbow Valley because of its proximity to Fort Knox. It is his demented belief that burying it here will cause the gold to grow. He is pursued by Monkees-type pop star (invented by publicists) Tommy Steele (age 32) as a leprechaun who is turning mortal because that's what happens when your 3-wish-granting gold is stolen.<br /><br />Steele is easily the best thing in the movie. I love to see a grown man scamper and cavort. He has a couple of close-ups which I think are Harpo quality. Everything he says is funny and his songs are just the cutest.<br /><br />The songs are written by E.Y. Harburg and composed by Burton Lane. Harburg wrote the Wizard of Oz songs (composed by Harold Arlen). Harburg obviously had a thing about rainbows. Harburg first knew and loved W.S. Gilbert's work as a writer of light satiric verse. He professed to be amazed when he learned that Arthur Sullivan composed music that went along with that crazy stuff. The songs are great and reason enough to see this long two hour twenty five god damn minute movie. And Tommy Steele. Petula's good. It depends on your taste but Fred Astaire isn't bad. He was better when he was even older, like in Ghost Story.<br /><br />The movie is CLUELESS and often EMBARRASSING. It is Without Guts and tries to appeal too broadly. It is abnormally flabbily edited; scenes shuffle along forever. One of the subplots added for the screenplay is about the sharecroppers trying to develop a strain of tobacco that is pre-mentholated. We're supposed sympathize because their minty cancer leaves won't burn and rejoice at the end when they inexplicably burst into smoky flame. One of the wishes gets wasted mistakenly turning a bigot senator into a black man, then another wish spent to turn him back after he learns his lesson and his attitude gets adjusted. Petula's young hero boyfriend is 40 and has fake hair. For good Irish whimsy type fun watch the Disney movie Darby O'Gill and the Little People.