This movie was crap, and I really mean crap. What was Lucas thinking having Anakin as a little boy? I remember the stories that Obi-wan told about how he first met Anakin to Luke during the original trilogy.<br /><br />"When I first knew him, your father was already a great pilot, but I was amazed at how strongly the force was with him. I took it upon myself to train him as a Jedi." To me, I imagined a young man, probably an army officer in some sort of air force, meeting a 40-50 year old Obi-wan, who is a proper Jedi NOT A LEARNER. Obi-wan befriends then offers to teach the young man about the force, much like he did with Luke, only the young man is much more aggressive than Luke was. Why have such an obvious plot contradiction? Then there is my biggest beef, remember the line that Obi-wan gives Luke in A New Hope? When he sees Luke with R2D2 and C3P0, what does he say? "I don't remember ever owning a droid." Yet R2D2 saved his life in this film and C3P0 was supposedly built by Anakin skywalker! WTF!!! Do you not think that Obi-wan would remember that? Maybe he's getting senile in his old age? Another thing in Empire Strikes Back Obi-wan clearly states that Yoda was his master. Remember how he persuades Yoda to teach Luke all about the Force? "Was I any different when you taught me?" Of course it's perfectly conceivable that Obi-wan had more than one master, but it's made perfectly obvious in this film that Qui-Gonn was his ONLY master. Jesus, George didn't you watch the first three films? I've explored the plot contradictions that destroyed what could have been an amazing series of films, but that isn't the only thing that destroyed it. The acting was wooden and rubbish, Yoda saying everything backwards, (which he didn't do in either Empire Strikes back or ROTJ), gets horribly boring and annoying after a while. However the lightsaber fight at the end was reasonable, which is why this film gets 2 stars instead of 1.<br /><br />This film is unforgivably bad, what's worse is that nobody can sense the force within Palpatine (even though he is a Sith Lord). God I could go on and on, but please just save yourself and the memories of one of the greatest film trilogies ever made, I mean the unmolested, unraped, untouched, virgin original trilogy.