Getting ahead in your career or moving on with your life doesn't necessarily mean moving `up.' That promotion or `golden opportunity' that comes along may not in reality turn out to be all that it would seem, initially, especially if it involves an unprecedented upheaval in your life, like a transfer to another city. It's a situation that becomes grist for Neil Simon's humor mill in the comedy-of-errors `The Out-of-Towners,' directed by Arthur Hiller. Jack Lemmon stars as George Kellerman, a Midwesterner who finally gets that `big chance' when his company offers him a job in New York City. It sounds good, and just like that, George and his wife, Gwen (Sandy Dennis), are on a plane headed for the Big Apple to look into this opportunity of a lifetime.<br /><br />	When their plane lands in New York, however, it's as if the wheels touching the runway triggers something in the cosmos alerting Murphy (whoever he is), who instantly puts his `Law' into effect. And, as Dinah Washington once said in a song, `Now it begins--' In this case, one cliche after another, all falling into place like dominoes during a tournament in the park. Missing luggage; a problem with their hotel accommodations-- as in, they have no reservation; being taken advantage of by a stranger, a native New Yorker looking for an easy mark; getting mugged; a broken tooth. Think of anything that could possibly go wrong, and it's in here. And you know what? it's funny stuff.<br /><br />	Under Hiller's steady, if not too imaginative direction, cliche-ridden as it may be, this comedy works, and the reason can be summed up in two words: Jack Lemmon. The whole concept of the story is tried and true, but tired; and this is definitely not one of Simon's best efforts (good as it is). But Lemmon immerses himself in his character, takes the laughing ball and runs with it, and makes even the most weathered and worn situations seem fresh and new. And, most importantly, he's going to make you laugh, which in the end is what this movie is all about in the first place.<br /><br />	What makes Lemmon so successful is that chameleon-like quality of his that enables him to become whatever character it is that he's creating. His creations may share that frustrated stammer and that tendency toward animated behavior that is so `Lemmon,' but beyond and beneath that, he has the ability to bring a definite sensibility to his characters that makes each of them unique. Here, you believe that George is a lifelong Midwesterner, and it shows in his entire countenance: His manner, attitude, body language and approach to everything he encounters in the Big City. George, however, is not your typical wide-eyed, naive and overwhelmed country-bumpkin-come-to-the-city. Instead, Lemmon creates a very real sense of an average guy facing a new experience in his life-- one that just happens to go completely awry. And by developing a character grounded in reality, he makes the humor work; it gives the audience someone to whom they can relate. It's something that Lemmon does so well, and he makes it look so easy while he's doing it.<br /><br />	As Gwen, Sandy Dennis is pointedly droll, so low-keyed in the face of their predicaments, in fact, that it would not have been out of character had George checked for her pulse occasionally. Her performance is fairly `theatrical,' more conducive to the stage than film, but in contrast to Lemmon's antics, it somehow becomes quite viable, and actually turns out to be one of the memorable aspects of the film. When you think about George later, you're going to have to think about Gwen, too. Gwen serves as something of a sounding board for George, a mirror in which his frustrations are reflected and enhanced. Ultimately, her non-expressiveness itself becomes an expression of her character, and though Gwen comes across as more caricature than character, within the context of the material, it works. And, as Lemmon's counterpoint, she plays it very well, and pulls it off without a hitch.<br /><br />	In addition to Lemmon's presence, one of the things that makes this film so funny is the accessibility of the characters; it is so easy to project yourself into their situation, and sharing their misadventures through the magic of film makes it hilarious. And you can empathize with George and Gwen, because down deep you realize that actually having to live through such an ordeal would be anything BUT funny. It IS fun, however, to experience it from the comfort of your own living room.<br /><br />	The supporting cast includes Sandy Baron (Lenny Moyers), Anne Meara (Woman In Police Station), Robert Nichols (Passenger), Ann Prentiss (Stewardess), Ron Carey (Cab Driver), Philip Bruns (Officer Meyers), Graham Jarvis (Murray), Carlos Montalban (Manuel), Billy Dee Williams (Clifford), Richard Libertini (Railway Porter) and Paul Dooley (Day Porter). After seeing this movie, who would ever be able to forget George, finally at the end of his rope, standing in the middle of the street, refusing to give up and railing at the city itself, challenging it to take it's best shot at him. And that's just one of the many moments that makes `The Out-of-Towners' such a delight, no matter how many times you watch it. At times, the humor is a bit acerbic; but in the final analysis, this is a film that's going to connect with just about any audience. It's the magic of the movies; but more than that, it's the magic of a terrific actor named Jack Lemmon. I rate this one 8/10. <br /><br />