This low budget video snoozer is from the famous director, Ito, an inhabitant of Northern Wisconsin. It's starts out as some sort of winter in the wilderness movie. But things are going bad, occasional spurts over the radio talk about UFOs and diseases. The three guest of a backwood brother-sister duo, Jake and Kate, are scientists investigating...., what? We don't know, strange for a movie consisting of so much talk. We see a diseased man run across the runway, driving off Jake's bush plane. So he lands at a nearby lodge, laid up for the winter, but no gas there. While on the ground, another plane flies over-head, and in a stock sound effect and gasps, we learn that plain crashes. Two of the scientists are so blasé they would rather hang around the lodge and play with the ham radio than check out the crash and maybe save someone's life. There they see the mysterious red light, which is the aliens or something, besides a creepy echo effected radio voice asking leading questions which must be aliens.<br /><br />So we hear a lot of speculation about this plague, invasion. Occasionally they cut to a TV studio with some locals telling the audience about their UFO encounter. More creepiness, young lovers watching this late night 70's talk show dreck suddenly disappear, kazaam!! Topping off the random cuts from the stranded group is the invasion of Tomahawk by the aliens, meaning about 50 odd friends and family running amok on the streets through red smoke generated by smoke bombs with the towns old fire trucks and AMC Ambassador police car going here and there. For clinchers, there is a couple UFOs that are grade school art projects at best.<br /><br />Meanwhile, our team of four guys and the lady decline to three as one of the scientists steals the plane but crashes as the red light gets him. Then Jake, our outdoors man, tries to make it to town on the snow mobile but the red smoke bomb gets him cold. Finally, the remaining three trek back to town on foot, they are running out of food and there is no game to hunt. They get separated, one of them freezes, the last two get re-united, in a juvenile Adam and Eve motif that would make you wretch.<br /><br />This is definitely a Mystery Science Theater 3K film. There is no action or much of a plot and the cut away shots to the rest of the world just add to the confusion. In the last act, out in the cold around a limpid campfire, the wiseacre Scientist reveals the whole mystery concerning Martians burrowing under the earth. You see Mars and Earth were once next door neighbors so the Martians made it to earth, burrowed underground for millenia. So why now, why the plague? How did they get the saucers out of the ground? How did he derive the hypotheses, based on meager data he gleaned from the shortwave? Who knows?