Collosal bore from Wisconsin filmmaker Bill Rebane with hilariously awful "special" (ill)effects and a talky script whose ridiculous story plods along at a languishing pace that demands the most amount of patience ever conceived from any unfortunate viewer who happens to sit down to watch it. It features an ending so unbelievably corny, you'll be left in silence wondering if it was possible to conclude an invasion story any more ineptly. Five characters are holding up in a cabin as their country falls prey to Martian invaders from "inner Earth"..just wait to you hear the theory of goofball Stan(Paul Bentzen)regarding Mars being right near Earth centuries ago, having to leave, deciding to make their new home within the center of our world. Anyway, a pilot, Jake(Nick Holt)runs a service where he treats campers to his lodge for a vacation in the snowy wilderness. He looks after orphaned teenager Sarah(Debbi Pick)as a fatherly figure. Stan, along with Sarah's love-interest Eric(Karl Wallace)and prick Andy(Robert Arkens)were preparing to return home when Jake encountered a warning from a sickened airstrip operator who insisted he not land due to a mysterious plague spreading across rural America. As they remain in the cabin, away from civilization, tempers flare and the search for food has been difficult. What makes matters worse is when Andy takes off in Jake's plane, feeling the effects of a ray used by the Martians with the result being a crash. Left in the middle of nowhere, without food, running out of gas, Jake will make the decision to use a snowmobile, hoping to find help for them.<br /><br />Rebane juxtaposes certain happenings outside of the plot regarding the log cabin characters, colored steam and red balls of light which cause people to act strangely, even disappearing. The flying saucers are of the Ed Wood school, quite an embarrassment, removing even the slightest bit of credibility Rebane attempted to establish with the development of his characters.<br /><br />I like a good isolation story, and the setting of a log cabin, cut off from civilization, within the wintry wilderness certainly provides a good backdrop. I think a competent director, with even a decent(..nothing extravagant)budget, can utilize the framework Rebane has to work with, characters effected by the threat of invasion, attempting to uncover what is occurring outside their radius to the rest of the country, but he doesn't know how to produce even a hint of suspense and the terrible use of inappropriate, loud, obnoxious musical arrangements produces even worse an experience. I simply wanted it to end, because the film doesn't capitalize on a premise that could work in a more talented director's hands. I'm sure the script was too ambitious, considering the monetary means for this movie was obviously limited(..if you are to make an invasion movie, then you have to produce more than colorful steam and red balls of light to convince us of the terror that threatens mankind).