One of Adult Swims bumpers called TGTTM, "...the most polarizing s@% of a b!#*$^ we've ever aired", and they weren't just trying to polish a turd by labeling it controversial. I simultaneously love and hate this show. While it was on, I couldn't wait for them to cancel it because I somehow knew that I'd like it more in hindsight. I didn't like it as a straight-up comedy, but it grew on me once I learned to see it as partly horror. The show follows the Tom Peters, the nicest, most normal guy on earth. He's just moved to Jefferton to try and make a living while making the world a better place, in spite of the town being populated mostly by degenerate mutants bent on torturing him to death, his new wife and 3 stepsons chief among them. Other viewers will call "mutants" an exaggeration, but the fact that only Tom was concerned about the town being completely submerged from a broken dam in "Bass Fishin'" makes me think Jefferton was a mid-western Innsmouth. As much as I hated the first season, I respected it for its uniqueness and took in every episode. And since seeing it, I've seen more and more things in everyday life that bring the show to mind, convincing me that it really has captured the zeitgeist, from the nightmare of finding a decent job in suburban America, to the stupidity and pretentiousness of local news programming and advertising in general. It also captures awkward moments without fixating on it like Seinfeld. The funniest parts are little commercials and visual gags, like trough-style breakfast-flavored instant meals, satirizing how fat we're allowing ourselves to get in the States. The basic pattern of each episode involves something terrible happening to Tom, usually the entire town turning on him because he was the only one sane enough to foresee and try to prevent something terrible from happening. The Mayor normally tries to help Tom, either accidentally of intentionally worsening the catastrophe of the week. So the recurring theme of the show's humor is misanthropy. Now, this next statement might only convey that I've been spoiled by living a nice, sheltered life in a first world country, but the reason this doesn't work is that misanthropy is only funny when people are randomly slaughtered left and right (Robot Chicken). The stuff that happens to Tom on the other hand seems so plausible that it's more horrifying than anything. The Porcelean Birds episode in particular put the entire 18-35 demographic on suicide watch for a half hour after it first aired. The show gets the viewer to empathize with Tom so strongly, that in the second season, when several stories see Tom accidentally kill and maim much of Jefferton, it became truly cathartic and hilarious, partly because Tom is the last guy on earth who'd hurt a fly, yet he truly deserves to eviscerate every last Jeffertonian. I actually laughed aloud at "Jeffy" when Tom, piloting a fake sea serpent, crushed several boatloads of people, and later (though not the last episode), we get our happiest moment as Tom is finally granted the sweet release of death, and takes half the town with him. Sure it implies he goes to Hell, but at this point it's been made clear to us that any Hell would be a step up from his life in Jefferton. Since cancellation, "Tim and Eric Awesome Show Great Job" has shown that their sense of humor is more suited to A.D.D. sketch comedy (Robot Chicken again), though I'm still sometimes at a loss as to whether I want to laugh of just smack them. Still, Tom is so adept at messing with your emotions while mocking our society that it's worth watching once. And if nothing else, it makes other unpleasant but good entertainment more enjoyable. Try watching "New York Ripper" right after an episode.