This was some pseudo-intellectual director's lame attempt at putting to celluloid a pseudo-intellectual playwright's lame attempt at a shocking and controversial play. In the end what you get is a snorefest that easily affords the viewer a lovely two-hour nap. When Miss Julie began I thought to myself, "Thank goodness the WHOLE movie couldn't possibly be THIS boring. If it were, I'd be very angry at the loss of three bucks it took to rent it!" An hour and a half later, I was indeed irate at the loss of my three bucks; I could have put better use to the money by plunking twelve quarters into an arcade machine or a stuffed animal crane. At least if I had wasted that money on the crane I might have taken away something warm and fuzzy with me. There is NOTHING warm and fuzzy about this movie. Mind you, a movie doesn't have to be happy to be good, but in the world of movies worth watching it DOES have to be entertaining! Entertainment is the LAST word you can use to describe this movie! I have been greatly entertained by Miss Burrows in the past. I cannot say this was one of those times. Her acting was passable at most. She seemed to be high on marijuana, not drunk on homemade hooch. Mr. Mullan was melodramatic in his role of an ambitious footman, and to make him the "romantic" lead in the process was just hysterical! A serious bit of miscasting took place when they filled the role of Jean. He was too enthusiastic in areas where he should have been subdued and he was FAR TOO SUBDUED in areas where he should have shown fire and passion. I know the script is horrible, but if you're going to commit to a bad screenplay, commit to it! I'd comment on the other characters, especially the role of Christine (played by Maria Doyle Kennedy) but what's the point? They all just added to the horror that was MY WASTED THREE BUCKS!!!! In short, consider this my public service announcement to you. Do NOT let go of your hard-earned cash to rent this movie! There are simply no redeeming qualities to it! It's depressing for the sake of being depressing, not for the sake of the storytelling. It's not artsy, it's not independent, it's just CRAP!