Perch your ears,listen closely,you devotees of the matchstick-figures!! Can you hear it......? There is something unholy trampling the holy land of hilarious melodrama, the beast is armed with utter contempt, with spite, with the mocking force of irony. What defence could you possibly muster, I ask of you? Give me a greatly exaggerated expression, while delivering lines with the life-like qualities of a typewriter, and the speed of a machine gun?! Yes, it is true, the tidings say that a great number of humans have become prey to the horrible, plastic monster that goes under the name of Melodrama. Cardboard men and women running insanely around, the things they say,how they say things, as about convincing as the credibility of an illiterate being the best one for a job as an interpreter, their manners and movements as gracefully as if you had taken a branch or a log, and moved it with abrupt, uneven jerks in the air. Oh, such a golden age in movie-making, no wonder those Oscars kept coming. Long live the staccato!! Apparently Peter Sellers found a great source of comedic inspiration in this films "evil" genius for his Inspector Closeau. After watching this robot unfold himself ridiculously, along with all the other ridiculous characters on display here, you wonder why there ever was a need of creating a Closeau at all? Sans Closeaus awkwardness, sans his police badge, you have here Closeaus evil and staccato brother from the 40's in all his glory!!If those of you, who's still having life pumping through your veins,are going to watch this worthless pile of crap, be prepared for a couple of scenes in particular that is probably some of the greatest comedy ever put on screen; the scene with "evil" genius getting angry at woman for having a dog, the scene in which "evil" genius and woman is attending a concert together, and right after, the scene in the carriage. Embarrassingly bad, and of course extremely funny! I've been seriously thinking; since there isn't a whole great deal of brilliant comedies being released these days, why not set out for foreign lands, why not plough the uncharted territory, where weed like "Gaslight" is growing a plenty, rip it up with its roots, and scour it for any signs of laughter-gas. But of course, this would have been a project for the absolute madman, since laugher soon enough would have given way to overwhelming nausea, and the urgent need to see what food in acid looks like. Whoever has heard of a man going to the dentist for cheers and giggles?