A very unique film. Yes there are elements of QT and Kevin Smith but is not imitation the highest form of flattery. It has been said that there are no original ideas and with the many thousands of movies that are available in stores, the finger of god would have to be pointing directly at you if you expect to see something you've never seen before. What I haven't seen before is a film that so shamelessly yet unpretentiously zings the industry as a whole, the average movie viewer, and itself, and all in good fun. Because everything that Nickel's script pretends to despise is happening right there on the screen in front of you. Kevin, at a loss for a subject for his film class project, stoops so low as to bribe his best friend Eugene to grant him an all access pass into his staggeringly pathetic professional and personal life. What we the viewers are let in on is a fairly accurate portrait of generation Y's aimless slacker lifestyle, and the struggle for love and adventure therein. As a former long-time resident of Pittsburgh, I know these guys. I feel their pain. Put yourself in any mid-sized American city with a minimum wage job, average looks and nothing to do on a Friday night and this is what classifies as the best you can get out of life. Yet Nickel has succeeded in turning someone else's boredom and desperation into a fun ride. For the cinematic sadist like myself I was disappointed that there weren't more bumped heads and kicks in the groin but they happen just enough to make the title character "Bitch" or "Karen" as Gene naively calls her, the "weasel under the cabinet" as Pinter would say. Though her screen time is limited, her presence is constantly felt and unquestionably recognized by male and female viewers alike. Everybody knows Bitch. Every guy has dated Bitch, and every woman knows a Bitch they've had to overcome to get the poor abused schmuck who they know deserves better. This is a movie that everyone can relate to. It is irreverent, fearless, clever, honest unique and above all funny. And Fun. You won't find these people together in any other movie you see, although you're likely to encounter them in real life whether you want to or not. This time though you won't regret following them around for a day. This is the adventure citizens of Movie Land, and it will change the way you look at movies and hopefully, real life. So check it out, because I guarantee you, you have not seen THIS before.