Brace yourself! If you decide to watch R.O.T.O.R., you're in for a unique and once-only journey into an obscure dimension of unequally bad B-cinema. This movie is awful beyond all known definitions of the term. People with a low tolerance for inept cinema are likely to faint or even die from a stroke during the first half hour already and even experienced bad movie fanatics will, in fact, face severe difficulties to sit through R.O.T.O.R from start to finish. Imagine everything – and I do mean every slightest thing – that can go wrong in a film, and you pretty much have an apt description of R.O.T.O.R. We're talking basic story ideas that desperately attempt to cash-in on previous blockbusters ("The Terminator", "Robocop") abominable acting performances from a largely amateur cast, completely incoherent narrative structure (with flashbacks within flashbacks etc…), errors in continuity that are as large as life itself, miserable dialogs and pathetic attempts at inserting comical elements, a soundtrack that makes you want to rip off your ears, "special" effects accomplished without any budgetary means and– hands down – the most pathetic depiction of a cyborg ever. The guy has a naturally grown mustache, for crying out loud! Scientist slash witty copper Coldyron is working on the ultimate mechanical policeman; the so-called Robotic Officer Tactical Operation Research or, as you guessed, R.O.TO.R. Due to an overload of complaints and work pressure from his superiors, Coldyron abandons the project (how devoted he is…) and his incompetent assistants take over. Needless the say the incomplete android breaks loose and goes on a relentless killing spree. Although …"killing spree" might be a bit exaggerated since he chases a girl in a car most of the time. At some point, still early during the production, I presume the cast & crew realized R.O.T.O.R was going to become a gigantic failure and so they started adding ridicule self-parody and even hugely irritating jokes about everything resembling a "Bad B-Movie". Especially the stupid android – behaving as annoying as C3PO from "Star Wars" and wearing a police cap on his metal head – ought to shut up! This is surely one of the dumbest movies ever made but, as several of my fellow reviewers already pointed out, it's almost impossible to really hate the film. You mostly feel sorry for all the people involved and continuously hope they got psychiatric help afterwards.