If you love independent film and aren't humor-impaired, pop WWHTKB into your DVD player and settle in for a wild ride.<br /><br /> From the bitchy bickering between roommates Stanley (John Yost) and Quentin (Greg Johnstone), and the emasculating meanness of Bitch (Kristin Pfeifer), to the oddly familiar depiction of a dead-end, minimum wages job (in this case a movie theatre), WWHTKB is humorous on the surface, and perceptive on a deeper level. Haven't we all found fault with a friend's significant other? Haven't most of us had male friends whose relationship dynamics were more akin to "catty" than "manly"? Who hasn't known women who, like Bitch, think of themselves as feminists when, in fact, they're really just bitchy? Haven't most of us endured the sheer torture of minimum wage existence and those "This can't really be my life" moments of being caught up in petty workplace drama? And who among us hasn't had a co-worker like "Todd" (WWHTKB direct JP Nickel in a cameo appearance), the little mousy guy who keeps to himself and doesn't say much, but whose darting eyes and maniacal glance hint he might well be on his way to 15 minutes of fame as stalker or serial murderer?<br /><br />These are only a few of the reasons my husband and I loved WWHTKB, and why we'll watch it again and again. We received the DVD as a gift from a friend who had seen the film at the Barebones Film Festival in Muskogee, Oklahoma. As an American living in Europe, I'm always glad to get an independent film as a gift, but this one is so funny that I'm threatening to use it as a training tool for my young Swiss goddaughters: "See girls? This is what American guys are _really_ like . . ."<br /><br />If you've not yet seen WWHTKB, rent or buy it and decide for yourself. Or, better yet, if you're in California, see it at the Gaffers' Film Festival. WWHTKB will screen at 11:30 p.m., Saturday, June 12, 2004, at the festival's host hotel: Sacramento Marriott Rancho Cordova, 11211 Point East Drive, Rancho Cordova, CA, 95742.