well what can I say about a show that had potential, but failed to deliver in the area of story lines and acting. I do admit that some story lines aren't that bad, but executed badly. Up and till season 4, it was OK to watch Charmed. Even with at times bad plots, you still could watch it and not kick yourself in the head later for watching it. If the show set out to entertain people, they could at least make an attempt at it. It would have been redeeming if it didn't take itself to seriously, which apparently they did. In that aspect, they didn't even deliver. Watching it, made me remember Power Rangers episodes because like the Power Rangers series, Charmed became increasingly formulaic over the years. In the beginning, you had demons, warlocks and on occasion a criminal and/or bad witch. But the redeeming side of it, was the relationship between the sisters and up till the first half of season 5, this was still present but severely diminished. I did enjoy the introduction of Paige to the show, but I got the feeling that they ran out of ideas after season 4. Season 5 and 6 was terrible. First of all was the death of Cole, who became indestructible. They killed him of in the worst possible way by sending Paige and Cole to an alternative dimension where he's still a demon and not a avatar. Than came the introduction of all sorts of magical beings: trolls, elves, gnomes, leprechauns, etc.... Instead of re imagining them and be creative. No, they used the popular vision of all these creatures and put them in there. After season 6, it didn't make any sense anymore and it felt like the producers and writers were so out of ideas for the show that it resulted in using cliché plots. Safe to say that Charmed wasn't always quality entertainment, but after season 4, it became quantity entertainment and I start to think that the producers and writers knew this. Otherwise, they were insulting its viewers and look like fools for doing continuing the show like that. In my opinion, they should have ended with season 5 lame ending. Sure the introduction of the Chris storyline seemed interesting, but was badly executed. Season 6 was probably the lamest season up to date and the only episodes worth mentioning were the reality show episode and the Barbas episodes. He's always fun to watch and interact with the sisters. Season 7 had a redeeming storyline throughout the season and should have been the perfect ending for a very mediocre show. The introduction of the Avatars and Zankou was handled nicely to my own surprise. The Zankou character like Barbas made the show worth watching, because there was a demon that stand out from the rest and was hard to kill. He even makes the Source looks lame compared to him. Although they could have done it better to set up the last two episodes where Zankou wanted to shake the sisters to their core. If that is all what it took to be shaking up, I'm surprised that the sisters survived this long. Than again, the demons were your typical run of the mill villain who attacks the sisters, plan to kill the sisters and end up being killed themselves. It reminded me of those lame action shows where the villain has nothing else to do than try to kill the hero. Unfortunately, the only demons worth mentioning is Zankou and Barbas. They were true demon and played superbly by great actors. Season 8 sucked. Even the acting went downhill. The introduction of Billie was terrible. I mean, it was laughable. The scene were Paige meets the demon in the theater and Billie crashes in to attack the demon was laughable. Not only the acting went downhill, the writing went first and it was visible. I'm glad they decided to cancel it. Too bad people prefer quantity over quality when it comes to entertainment. Shows like this, only show the stupidity of the masses at times, just like with the reality TV hype.