It seems that over the last few years feminism is getting a stronger hold on anime. This is more than evident in this picturesque and extremely depressing anime - among the same level of depressing as Neon Genesis and Elfen Lied. What I could see almost instantly that the sinister and well hidden agenda of this anime is undermine the male gender while lionising and glorifying the female. This anime is not the usual man-hating that anime like Love Hina and almost every other recent anime which is slapstick has. This is far more serious. The anime asks me were women oppressed in the preceding generation? The answer of course is yes - there were some tyrannical men who wanted to 'oppress women.' But in the World Wars hundreds of men were killed just to investigate enemy grounds - they were expendable. This anime is a prime example of a source that will be used in the approaching inevitable Men's Movement as it depicts men as evil thoughtless zombies who answer to their dodgy generals and political leaders who are killed by the two heartless female assassins as if they were nothing! An example that men are oppressed by other men yes but thats not the worst of it! Mirielle and especially Kirika unlike the men they slay so casually and cruelly - and it almost always IS men - bleed - as if trying to show they are human and the men they kill are not. The cast is all female with Chloe joining in too add to the killing. This anime lionises women with the two maidens of death hogwash that will make any male viewer who is not a complete wuss wonder about his worth as a man - its just like Lucy from Elfen Lied being made to look like a holy virgin pure daughter of the mother god! Can you imagine the success of this anime if it were two men who were killing women every episode? It would be banned from countries! It does have an interesting story I'll admit though the ending is just plain pathetic as is Kirika who is supposed to be some rip off of Rei Ayanami from Neon Genesis who's lost her memory. I can't give an anime that depressed the hell out of me a good rating. It seems that the only serious anime now a days are plagued by feminism. If its not slapstick anime where its easy to have the females kicking around the 'perverted' weak males then they'll just do anything to make females the leads and in charge and by far the stronger and more pure and innocent sex in the more powerful anime. This anime is a good watch for anyone really though. As it will further educate the male population how worthless their lives are and how hated they are and thus speed up the arrival and strengthen the backlash against the very message of this anime - feminism. People just love this anime because they are so blind to this fact.