I suppose there are ways in which this could have worked. The final film could have an irony towards the trademarks of the old ones. The somewhat invariable plot structure of the original series could be gently poked fun at. Most likely, of course, no movie should have been made in this series after the two-part ending of 1981... but it was. And boy did they mess up royally. Yvonne is very sorely missed. The fact that the film does not featuring her is about as subtle as a pack of angry bulls running amok in a ceramics store that is being ravaged by a tornado. The character of Ruth, as portrayed by Grethe Sønck, is a pretty poor substitute... no offense to the actress, who is quite talented, but no one could have filled the shoes of Kirsten Walther. That fact alone should have discouraged them from creating this. Everything that the old films built up over the first four films and then maintained steadily through no less than nine entries is picked up, raised high in the air, ungentlemanly dropped and repeatedly jumped on, until there is nothing of the magic left, and everything that was once great about this franchise is destroyed beyond recognition. The humorous antics of these excellent actors put together by two great writers in a marvelous comedy series is reduced to a bunch of old men yelling. The humor that in the old ones was so sophisticated, light and clever is now indiscreet, noisy and lame. The movie isn't funny, to put it simply. The gags are overplayed and rarely contain actual humor. One scene is painfully drawn-out and cartoony in its feeble attempts at being entertaining. The senility is pushed to the extreme, in spite of this series earlier attempts at joking with that topic having been right on the mark and quite successful. I don't believe I smiled once throughout watching this... and this was definitely my very last viewing. The film is by no means an Olsen-Banden film... it starts, progresses and ends too different from the others. I understand and can almost appreciate the attempted nostalgia, but when it so viciously devastates everything that made these movies good... they should have let this franchise be. After this came the Christmas calendar of which the very logic and basic concept is deeply flawed and contradicts the series(disrespecting its very roots, though not in the least as much as this does), and the movie following the idea of aforementioned calendar, which I continually refuse to watch. So far, that's the last of the "revival" of(more like cash-in on) the famous, loved and astounding old series... let's hope it stays that way. Cinematography is nice. Plot is contrived, writing poor. The costumes and production design fits the style of the old films, although here, much of it looks out of place. The film fails to create one single memorable scene. Near the end, all the characters - new and old alike - are collected together in one scene, around a dozen, with less than half of them having anything to do. In many ways, this is a sophomoric effort. In more ways, it's humiliating and embarrassing. The very ending, the last of the film does possess a single clever comment... but by then, it's much, much too late. There is nothing left to even try to save. Had they only stopped in '81. There's a saying... "leave them wanting more". This film left me wishing I hadn't had quite so much. I don't really recommend this to anyone. Have someone describe the ending to you, and make sure they don't tell you anything else about the film. 1/10