Oh yeah, I used to be a fan of the Ninja Turtles. Honestly, I was a fan, but then I started to hate the turtles, only because of THIS MOVIE! This movie is awful. The plot is heavily contrived(April O'Neil buys a lamp that makes them all go back in time), and has the lamest story ever. Basically, the Turtles find themselves back in ancient Feudal japan and end up fighting a generic samurai and a generic guy on a horse with a bird in a cage... wait... what did I just say?! I can't believe I just said that but it's true! They fight a guy on a horse who has a bird in a cage! This guy is totally out of place! I guess the writers thought hey maybe we should add one or two ridiculous elements so that the movie is cheesy enough to be at least enjoyable on some level. Well this proves that they failed to even achieve that optimistic level of greatness! Anyways, the battles are poorly done and very short. Also, every time the turtles wisecrack or try to insert a little humor it comes off being very forced and stupid. They even had the gall... the GALL to insert a joke saying "Help, I'm a turtle and I can't get up!". There's even a line where one of them says "You were expecting maybe uh the Addam's Family?!". OMG... these jokes MIGHT be funny for anybody under the age of 10, but for anyone older, it works more as an ipecac than anything else. So I guess we've found one use for this movie. If you are over 10 and have ingested poison, just watch this movie right away and you will be projectile vomiting within seconds.<br /><br />The turtle outfits also look terrible. Their lip movements don't match the words and Splinter looks like a generic puppet from Sesame Street or the Muppets show. There's also plot holes, countless continuity errors, and so on. It's obvious that this movie was made solely to be a cheap cash in on the ninja turtle craze. This is ironic considering the craze pretty much had died down completely by 1993 when this movie came out.<br /><br />When you look up asinine in the thesaurus... you will find that one of the synonyms is TMNT 3. It's poorly written, a cheap cash-in, and doesn't even work as cheesy entertainment. On the other hand, there is actually one TMNT movie that is worse than TMNT 3... and for those of you who want to know what it is, I will spare you the horror of ever thinking about it... okay, it's the Coming out of their shells tour video.