Sure, "Phantasm" is about as low budget as you can get, even for a horror film, but the amazing thing about this movie is that a lack of funds did not hurt it at all. In fact, some of the plot holes that a bigger budget would have filled in actually work in the movie's favor. By not really understanding who the Tall Man is or why he does what he does, "Phantasm" assumes enigmatic dimensions that practically beg for explanation through further sequels. Coscarelli, who I think is planning yet another sequel in this franchise, has also made a few other films over the years: the recent "Bubba Ho-tep" and the ubiquitous cable favorite "The Beastmaster" are the most memorable.<br /><br />Reggie, Jody, and Jody's younger brother Mike soon learn strange things are afoot at the Morningside Funeral Home. After a funeral service for a friend of Reggie and Jody, Mike sees the eerie undertaker at the funeral home heave a three hundred pound casket in the back of a hearse all by himself. Intrigued, Mike begins to investigate the funeral home and this puzzling figure, fondly known to fans of the series as the Tall Man, and unearths a whole heap of weirdness. Before long Jody and Reggie get caught up in the madness of the Tall Man's world. What they discover behind the walls of the funeral home is a nightmare of endless dangers: twisted, angry little creatures clad in robes, a portal to another dimension, and small flying spheres that seek out human flesh with disastrous and bloody results. As the three attempt to put together the odd pieces of this puzzle, the Tall Man and his minions always lurk in the background ready to do serious bodily injury to the interlopers. What Reggie, Mike, and Jody discover is hardly reassuring: the Tall Man is some sort of other dimensional being roaming our world in search of corpses. He then reanimates the bodies and transforms them into stunted little creatures so he can transport them into his dimension. Why does he do this? Who knows, but it is fun watching our three heroes battle the Tall Man in this film and the subsequent sequels.<br /><br />One of the best elements of "Phantasm" is the characters. You have the Tall Man (Angus Scrimm), a lumbering giant of a man dressed all in black and sporting a perpetual scowl. He delivers his lines, of which there are few in this movie but more in subsequent films, in a growling tone full of dark menace. Scrimm is creepy as the Tall Man, and I think this character may well be one of my favorite horror film bad guys. The actors who play Reggie, Jody, and Mike appear in all of the sequels (with a minor switch in two), an important continuity because it gives the "Phantasm" franchise a real "contained universe" feel lacking in most horror series. It was fun for me to watch the original film after seeing the later sequels because the guys are so much younger here. Jody sports a '70's coif that would do Starsky and Hutch proud, and Reggie looks so young that it is almost frightening.<br /><br />"Phantasm" films always contain elements that make for a great, downbeat atmosphere. The music is absolutely fantastic, and if I had to compare the background beats of "Phantasm" with the sound of another horror film it would have to be something along the lines of Kubrick's "The Shining." The movie sounds creepy, and when matched with the mostly shot at night scenes and the wickedly gory rampages of those metallic spheres, the whole film takes on a most memorable feel. Coscarelli does not rely solely on gripping horror, however, as there are many humorous scenes throughout the film. The scene where Mike and Jody do battle with the severed finger is one of the funniest I have seen in a horror movie. Even the fake looking bug and the gruesome little minions of the Tall Man are amusing in their own right.<br /><br />If you want to buy just one DVD because of the extras, you should get Phantasm if you can track down a copy(it's gone OOP now). I couldn't believe how much stuff they packed on one disc! You get lengthy deleted scenes, a commentary with Coscarelli and the film's actors, a long interview with Coscarelli and Angus Scrimm made years ago with some film professor, a short film of an appearance Angus Scrimm made at a horror convention, trailers, a disco version of the theme song (!), poster and lobby card pictures, a kooky promotional ad made by Angus Scrimm for the Australian market, and a widescreen picture transfer. I especially enjoyed the footage of Scrimm speaking at a horror film convention. Even though it was a bit corny, he quickly ran through all of the lines the Tall Man said in the "Phantasm" films, and since most of his dialogue in these movies is so memorable it was great to hear him say them in character. Overall, it felt like it took longer to view all of the extras on this disc than it did to watch the film! If you haven't delved into the dark world of "Phantasm," start here and rapidly move on to the excellent sequels.