If the message of this film can truly be summed up when McCrea's character says "There's a lot to be said for making people laugh." Then I can't say much for 'Sullivan's Travels'. I can see why someone might think this is a great movie. It attempts to mix comedy with social commentary. While attempting to make a comedy with some sense of purpose or message is a noble and bolder undertaking then most comedies (especially screwball comedies of the 30s/40s) were willing to attempt. That doesn't mean it automatically gets an 'A', on effort alone. The fact is that this "comedy" doesn't even attempt to be a comedy for the last half of the movie and instead veers sharply into melodramatic commentary on the inequities of depression age America, and the misguided way in which the upper-class views the lower. Oh and it also points out how ultimately Hollywood is a friend to the every man and provides a great social service, kind of like Clooney's Oscar speech. Anyway the point is that all of the comedy in this movie is confined to the first half and the second is an overwrought drama, which beats its message home. If this was truly a great comedy it would have integrated the two halves instead of lumping them one on after the other. Making a highly comedic satire that seamlessly blends comedy and drama while maintaining an interesting plot and effectively conveying the message can be done. 'Dr. Strangelove', or perhaps more to the point 'Network' and 'The Player' accomplish this task much more successfully then 'Sullivan's Travels' does.<br /><br />In any event I fail to see how AFI could rank this has the 39th funniest movie of all time. Was it the part where Veronica Lake pushes McCrea into the pool, and then she falls in, and the butler walks up and...well you know the rest. That bit has been done before but only like a million times before, and sometimes it's a lake or pond instead of a swimming pool, and I've seen it done with a puddle of mud and a bath tub too, but I digress. Or okay, how about the part where McCrea gets in the car with the kid and it goes tearing down the street out of control with the van chasing after them. Hmmm, well OK how about the "witty dialogue", which for the period didn't come nearly as fast or furious as it does in other pictures. Now granted you may find the dialogue funny, and I can't say that you don't; maybe you honestly do. Maybe you were put in a maniacal uncontrollable fit of laughter, like some of those prisoners were watching Pluto chase his tale around; who knows? But what you can't tell me is that there are any jokes in the last 30 minutes of the film. And it is impossible for me to understand how a movie that half consists of routine slapstick in its first act, and doesn't even attempt comedy in its final act is the 39th funniest movie of all time. Oh wait, I know, it's a freaking "classic" first off, and not only that but one that champions the film industry itself. Give me a break. Oh by the way, the little joke I made in the first two lines of this review, is funnier then anything in 'Sullivan's Travels'. So at least if seeing the movie has lead you to read these reviews; you got to see at least one good joke. If you're looking for a classic screwball comedy (And after watching this I wouldn't even classify it as such, but that's what I heard going in.) go rent Arsenic and Old Lace or Bringing up Baby or something that isn't Sullivan's Travels.