What we all have feared ,hoping that it will never materialize, unfortunately occurred,namely, a French Sci-Fi film,and , yes , it is in the misty nebulae of deeper than the deepest philosophical meanings , interpretations and Lacan-like conclusions ! There is a top security space vessel with the skeleton crew ,but there are no wardens, only a trio of psychiatrists and a bunch of supposedly utterly murderously fixated criminals,whose crime history we never get to learn about,but they are all blessed with religiously –intelectually – deadly seriously sounding names , namely : Persefone , Lazare ,Moloch, Buddha ! to name but a few and this merry-go round starts spinning at incredible speed with the arrival of a prisoner-patient ,who is emitting a sort of religious aura-energy ,and is immediately christened by one of the prisoners as Saint Chrostopher ,who has finally arrived to save them … From something …And then we are left to witness and sigh with bottomless wonder and awe at the endless walks through corridors ,suspiciously resembling the interiors in the Cube series ,and a trio of aforementioned controllers ,who are supposedly controlling something…From someone … And then the course of the ship is changed ,and … the volcano-looking planet ,around which the station rotates,is transformed through the ' deus-et-machina ' intervention by the aforementioned Saint-dude into an Earth-looking planet no less ! And ,yes, if you haven't been annoyed / irritated / depressed enough by this , there is another mind-wrecking surprise in store , namely a narrator , Persefone in person – as a comic relief ? – who is trying to add a necessary element of terrifying explanations ,as unfortunately there is no place for free-wheeling sex (the sexes look the same here ,mind you !) .This movie rejects everything the American , well, the only quality science-fiction genre has produced so far , instead opting for the worst of the worst , namely Russian Tarkovsky-like products ( e.g. Stalker , Solaris ) ,while it also steals from Kubrick's Odyssey series. You have been properly warned , and if you have to , watch without , God forbid , a female companion , specially if you wish to impress upon her ! Better show her a Shaq comedy ! With his size shoes !