In a nutshell so that you don't have to read the rest of my crap if you don't want to: Old story. Aliens are having problems in their world and so they come to ours to bug us or take over, or something. I dunno. So an alien agent is sent to stop them from their diabolical schemes.<br /><br />When not chairing the "Iron Chef" Mark Dacascos. does action B-movies which are, in my opinion, usually better than most B-movies but yet always seem to fall just short of their potential. This one is no exception. All the pieces are there; just needed a little bit more intelligence in the writing and better direction. Case in point: our hero steals a police car and was asked by his companion why he did it. He replied that he wanted to hear the police reports. This was so obviously a lame excuse since the cost of attracting so much attention to himself far outweighed the benefits. Besides, he could simply have used or gotten a scanner of his own (he had a hideout full of crap). More likely the director wanted a car chase and this was his best excuse to get one. In another scene a lot of people were killed for no good reason other than to steal a truck. Why would you do that and draw unwanted attention to yourself? More likely the director needed a mass murder at this juncture and this was his best excuse for one. I wanted to like this movie, and I did "somewhat" (I liked the early scene with the alien chick on the overpass; at that point the movie looked very promising) but there were some inconsistencies that bugged me. In the first fight scene the hero fought very well; expertly. Then there was a later fight scene where he appeared to not know how to fight at all. If the director wanted the bad guy to get the better of him he could have done it without making him look like he forgot how to fight altogether (he basically stood there and took an ass whipping).<br /><br />Dacascos obviously is a talented martial artist. More so than Van Damme or Seagal. And yet -as luck or fate would have it- never achieved even their level of success. Ironic that he's probably better known from a cooking show than from what he does best. Kick ass. Ahh well, life has a sense of humor. All I can say for Alien Agent is that it's better than most B-movies which may or may not be saying much. Why don't you be the judge? Love, Boloxxxi.