Seriously, how does this even exist. It doesn't suck in the sense that it makes you angry and want to kill those who made it, but it does suck in the sense that it's almost funny to watch this absolute nonsense. The acting is awful except by our lead actress, and the movie seems way too long. The flashback and guilt-trip scenes are really annoying in the beginning. Our lead actress's breasts get more screen time then the zombies at the end of the movie.<br /><br />But where this one really falls apart is the directing and storyline. Jay Woelfel was obviously eager to get his "movie" out, but where he failed was putting time into making it. The storyline becomes a convoluted mess once we get into the whole "thirteen victims, thirteen months/years" crap, and it's very hard to keep track of it all. And then at the end of the movie we have Stan (love interest guy) saying that the little girl was the thirteenth victim, when the lead girl was supposed to be? Let's not forget about how Stan turns on our lead girl in about two seconds and is revealed to be a bad guy for utterly no reason, along with the Sheriff. Just...wow. The directing is equally bad and confusing, but I've seen worse. It's just cheap and tacky.<br /><br />But aside from why this is technically bad, you just can't stop watching it! That's the worst thing, it's stupid and shallow, and very lame, but it's also really funny, and you end up stuck to the screen waiting to see what happens next! It's a right conundrum, I've never seen a movie like this. The bad acting, lame script and storyline, and hilarious images of zombies retching around with water spewing out of their mouths may have come together to form a movie that is actually worth watching for comedy fans.<br /><br />Let me just re-iterate something before I end the review: You're watching a movie about people that come back from the bottom of the lake every 13 years and drag more people down with them. There's also some mumbo jumbo about a little girl and her twin sister who's dead, and a green ball. And breasts. But not a lot of real horror. Not recommended to anyone who doesn't want a good laugh.