As an actress/dancer in training, I found this movie to be what so many others have adequately dubbed it: a poorly made film with glaring stereotypes. In this near-copy of Dirty Dancing, the acting by Julia Stiles is nothing short of atrocious, full of indication and melodrama, rather than real, in-the-moment expression. Stereotypes abound, with "gangsta" lingo and some of the most ridiculous "fight scenes" (i.e., the gym)I have ever seen.<br /><br />As others have commented, the Juilliard School audition was so unbelievable I found it an insult to performers and to the establishment. The name on the placard was spelled wrong, Sara's dance was mediocre at best, and the event of a "second chance" at a major audition is something that simply would not happen. The added lack of credibility came from Derek's impromptu run onto the stage-and the judges' campy response. At a university audition, an interruption like Derek's likely would have ruined any chance of being accepted, and under no circumstances would there have been a sweet "let's give closure" response like: "Welcome to Juilliard." <br /><br />The stereotypes, as many have mentioned, do more to hurt this film than to communicate its real message. It is unfortunate, in a film so intent on breaking down racial barriers, that the filmmakers chose to go to the extremist sides of both cultures, serving only to further ingrain those biases in the minds of viewers. Even more discouraging is the subtle message that is presented by Stiles-that to be accepted you must conform to those around you, even if that means going against your personal feelings or beliefs. At the beginning of the movie, Stiles obviously has her own way of dressing and behaving-by the end, she has become a sort of crossover Barbie doll, a Caucasian playing dress-up in an urban world-a choice made in direct conflict with her character's personality. So much of the film goes into emphasizing Sara's strength and independence-and yet we find that independence strangely lacking with regard to things that truly matter-leaving her a big talker, but one who manages to slink into a corner whenever trouble arises. (note: scenes where Derek's old girlfriend "steals" Derek on the dance floor, and the "confrontation" in the gym with the ex.)<br /><br />Overall, this movie was poorly acted and hardly credible. Although there are some tender moments, the agonizing pace and predictability of the movie make it little more than a throwaway summer flick. A waste of time for avid moviegoers and a joke to dedicated performers.