Well, this is so horrible it's brilliant! I just watched this in my horror film class (the professor didn't show it willingly, but after the suggestion of a fellow professor) and my classmates and I were laughing our heads off! This movie is even too awful to show on "Mystery Science Theater." It is a joke within itself. I've read some reviews, saying that it's parody. Let's not kid ourselves. "Airplane" is a parody. This is plain ol' silliness. If there's anything I have to say, you can't fall asleep through a movie like this, because you can't wait to see what ridiculous thing will happen next! If this is parody, then critics aren't lying when they classify it as the laziest genre. When you're laughing at a film, rather than with it, it's trespassed the lines of parody. It's hard to describe my feelings about the movie, because I think it's one of the worst films I've ever seen, yet at the same time I suggest people check it out (if you get the chance; don't spend a hell of a lot of money to purchase a copy of it!). But as long as you're in the mood for a good laugh. If you want to learn what NOT to do when making a horror film, then watch "Stacy." You can't play elevator music during a horror film, because it brings it to a complete halt--or any film for that matter, but especially in horror. That's what happened whenever one of the Stacys would start speaking, and camera zoomed in on her--that damn cheesy elevator music would start playing. I wrote a horrible parody of film noir when I was taking a screenwriting class. I felt like reading that screenplay after watching this, because as horrible as I think it is, it can't be as horrible as this movie. The same goes with an awful student film I made in high school. This is like a Japanese Ed Wood flick. This is the "Plan 9" of Japan. It gotta be seen to be believed! Horrible dialogue, horrible acting, horrible effects, horrible story, horrible camerawork, horrible everything!<br /><br />My score: 1 (out of 10)<br /><br />