I feel like I need to sleep for a month to recover from watching this garbage; god knows how many brain cells I've lost. Asian horror seems to fall into two categories; you've got the boring ghost stories, with films such as Dark Water and The Grudge, and then you've got the ridiculous attempts at 'schlock' horror, with films like Versus and this rubbish. I'm not sure which one I hate more, but I know one thing is for sure; I'm not going to see any more horror films originating from that part of the world. You can only be stung so many times. So anyway, onto this film; Stacy is Japan's attempt at a zombie flick. The film takes obvious influence from stuff like 'Anime' and 'Manga', and this is shown by way of the ridiculous comic plotting. The film works on the idea of women catching the zombie virus and coming back as zombies, which have been nicknamed 'Stacie's'. This is a problem across Japan, and so the government has implemented several initiatives to deal with the problem, including the zombie search and destroy squad, named Romero (the phrase 'ham-fisted' springs to mind). The main plot seems to be the one dealing with some guy called Shibukawa and a soon-to-be-Stacy.<br /><br />The main problem with this is film is that it's just ridiculous. The plotting is illogical in the extreme, and as the film flicks between various different plots; it bypasses entertainment and only serves in being boring. This movie made me want to chop myself up with a chainsaw, just for something to do. Quite how anyone can draw any kind of enjoyment from a messy load of rubbish like this is beyond me. Speaking of mess...this film features a lot of gore, some of which is actually quite good, but it's so comically over the top that it can't be taken seriously. Stacy relies a lot on the fact that it's "zombie schoolgirls", but seriously...so what? Stacy does feature some originality in the zombie stakes, which we don't often see; things such as the teleshopping channel selling chainsaws shows ingenuity; but it's too little in a film with so many negative elements. The tributes to zombie classics only serve in reminding the audience how much better this type of film can be, and calling the zombie squad Romero is as lame as the rest of the movie. All in all, this is bad even for an Asian horror film. Getting to the end is akin to running a marathon. See it only if you are in dire need of sleep.