Demonic Toys starts with two undercover cops Judith Gray (Tracy Scoggins) & Matt Cable (Jeff Weston) going undercover to arrest a couple of arms dealers Lincoln (Michael Russo) & Hesse (Barry Lynch). They meet in an isolated parking lot where things get out of hand & Lincoln shoots Matt dead, Matt also happens to be Judith's lover so she has extra incentive to take both of them in. Judith manages to wound Hesse who along with Lincoln break into a nearby warehouse belonging to 'ARCADIA TOYS' where Judith follows them. Judith detains Lincoln but they are both locked in a store room with a steel door while elsewhere Hesse crawls across a strange glowing spot on the floor badly injured & bleeding, as his blood drips onto the floor an evil demon is given the power to bring some of the various toys to life & Hesse first has his face chewed off by a mutant Jack in the Box, he then has his fingers bitten off by an incredibly vicious teddy bear & finally Hesse is shot by a toy robot using blue laser beams. Mark Wayne (Bently Mitchum) an employee of 'Chunky Chicken' fast food restaurant turns up to deliver an order to the grossly overweight foul-mouthed security guard named Charnetski (Peter Schrum), they both hear noises coming from the store room & discover Judith. Charnetski tries to go for help but is killed by the demonic toys, everyone, along with a homeless kid named Anne (Ellen Dunning) find themselves trapped in the warehouse & that these toys are controlled by a demon who grows stronger with each of their death's, stronger to achieve his ultimate hideous aim...<br /><br />Directed by Peter Manoogian for the 'killer toy' specialist's Full Moon Demonic Toys doesn't rank particularly high in this horror film sub-genre as far as I'm concerned. The script by David S. Goyer who has since gone on to write massive Hollywood films such as Blade (1998), Blade II (2002), Blade: Trinity (2004), Dark City (1998), Batman Begins (2005) & the upcoming Ghost Rider (2006) film was amongst his first & after this it's a wonder he was ever let near any of those films. The characters are extremely one dimensional, they have virtually no personality or background although having said that a one or two of them were sort of likable. Demonic Toys is about a demon trying to resurrect itself more than killer toys, this demon just uses them every once in a while to knock off one of the cast members. No explanation is given as to who this demon is or where he came from & Goyer also throws in some of those annoying dream sequences & the demon taking the form of dead characters trying to trick those still alive, you know the sort of thing. I would also like to know how that killer teddy bear managed to grow to human sized proportions. Demonic Toys is clichéd & starts to become dull as it's easy to tell who's going to die & survive & it features no logic or sense whatsoever. Technically Demonic Toys is cheap & nasty, the production design consists of placing lots of cardboard boxes with 'ARCADIA TOYS' written on them in each location & it becomes monotonous very quickly. There are various mistakes & errors & the special effects are generally poor except a rather good stop-motion animated toy soldier at the end. The music by Richard Band sounds like, but not as good, the theme from the far superior Dolls (1987) which isn't a surprise as Band also scored that. The killer toys themselves lack imagination except the Jack in the box who is the first toy to be killed anyway so don't expect to see a lot of him. The gore is tame & unconvincing apart from a reasonable decapitation, there are a few bites, a few gunshot wounds, a scene when someone pokes his own eyes out, someone is poked in the eye & someone has their fingers bitten off. The acting is OK for this sort of thing & both Scoggins & the goofy Mitchum make for pleasantly likable leads. Overall the best thing thing I can about Demonic Toys is that I thought it passed 80 odd minutes without to much pain but there isn't a whole lot here that impressed me & I'll have probably forgotten about it by next week (or at least I hope I will have). If your after a good, fun & entertaining killer toy film then check out the Puppet Master (1989 - 2003) & it's sequels, Dolls or the Child's Play (1988 - 2004) films instead. Great title, below average film but still maybe worth a watch if your absolutely desperate or a killer toy film fan.