Even if I agreed with All the Rage's blatant anti-gun agenda (I don't) I would still have to say that it sucks. Its kind of sad too, because I really like most everyone in this movie, but as we all know the best actors in the world cannot save a lame script and ham handed direction. It baffles me how they talked such a talented group of actors into working on this piece of rubbish. Must have been a heck of a sales pitch. Allegedly a comedy, I didn't laugh once while watching All the Rage. The attempts at humour were not only severely unfunny, they were downright embarrassing. To add insult to injury the characters in this film were completely unrealistic and not at all sympathetic. I didn't care about these people at all.<br /><br />I'm a huge fan of black comedies and given the cast I had high hopes for All the Rage. Unfortunately I was very disappointed. I shouldn't have been surprised, being a direct to video release. It wasn't that I was expecting another Pulp Fiction or Trainspotting, I was just hoping for something entertaining, this film was a complete waste of time.<br /><br />Getting back to the film's "agenda", I've found that most anti-gun people really know very little about guns and gun owners. All they really know is the heavily distorted misinformation spoon fed them by anti-gun lobbies. What they don't tell you is that 99.99% of gun owners are sane, responsible, safety conscious, good and perfectly normal people. They also don't tell you that in every single state that has passed laws allowing concealed carry (there are 27 at last count), violent crime has dropped by as much as 50%. Whether you, the reader, agree with me or not, just think about it logically. If guns are so evil and the cause of crime and chaos, how is it that over the last 30 years gun ownership has steadily increased, and gun related crime has steadily decreased? If you don't believe look it up yourself at the Department of Justice (DOJ), which is neither pro or anti-gun and therefore impartial.<br /><br />Again my feelings about the "anti-gun" agenda aside, agenda or no, this is still a very bad movie. Don't waste your time.