Hmm...where to start? Well, start by reading shayhugi's review of the movie. When you are done reading it you get this sense of confusion, like you should have understood it, but you just didn't. So you are tempted to read it again to see what you must have missed, however, you don't, because you come to your senses and don't want to waste your time. That's exactly the feeling you'll get while watching this movie. Try chugging a beer each time someone in the movie stiffly says "keyless encryption," and you'll feel much better. The acting is so poor the script reaches the level of self-parody, which is tough to do by mistake. However, writer/director/exec. producer Hank Whetstone has no problem. (See his other credits...oh, umm, there are none. This will remain his greatest achievement.) Yes, the cover has Apache helicopters, although none appear in the movie. Yes, ending the movie in the Bahamas was just an excuse to take the crew on vacation. Yes, when a plane gets blown up by a rocket, the entire sequence takes place off camera, saving the FX dept their whole budget. But it's the script that brings the real laughs. If I was running from someone w/a gun, would I run to an empty beach? What on earth went on with that beach scene? All of a sudden there are two-discs? Am I missing something? Ahh, someone just said "keyless encryption." Another cold one downed. I was tempted to rewind it, but came to my senses.<br /><br />Upon reading some of the newer high praise for this movie, it have recognized that: A. Almost all were written in the first few months of 2005, many in March. B. Almost all have overseas cities listed. C. Almost all of the glowing reviews look they were written by dweebs on shrooms.<br /><br />From this I can only gather either that: 1. This movie has authentically reached cult-status for its poor quality. Or 2. A bunch of nerds got together and watched the movie on the TV in the back of one of their mom's garage, and the one girl invited there who was not half good looking but the rest wanted to make out with in the back of their '97 Neon anyway said something remotely positive about the movie and they wanted to impress her with incoherent dribble posted online. We can only be so lucky as to read their endless wretched blogs. But no amount of intercontinental praise will improve this waste of film.