"Galaxy of Terror" is a movie that I saw for the first time almost 20 years ago and my reaction to this movie back then was "OH THIS MOVIE IS DISGUSTING!!!" I just saw it again recently, and my reaction was pretty much the same as it was the first time. "Galaxy of Terror" is a gory, disgusting low budget sci-fi/horror flick that's nothing more than a third-rate ripoff of Ridley Scott's far superior 1979 classic "Alien". You want to know the funniest thing about this movie? It's hard to believe that James Cameron was the production designer of "Galaxy of Terror". Yes! This is the same James Cameron who went on to direct big box-office smash hits such as the first "Alien" sequel "Aliens, the two "Terminator" pictures, "The Abyss", "True Lies", and the current #1 box-office blockbuster of all time, the Oscar-winning "Titanic". Of course the big excuse for Cameron's presence here is that he was very much unknown when he worked on "Galaxy of Terror". I'm sure today that this movie is one project that he never mentions. And well he shouldn't. Another funny thing about "Galaxy of Terror" is the cast. What long time veteran character actor Ray Walston is doing in this movie is an enigma. Robert Englund is also featured here, a few years before taking on his most famous role, that of Freddy Krueger in the "Nightmare on Elm Street" movies. And Erin Moran of TV's "Happy Days" should be ashamed of herself for agreeing to appear in this (she also gets the unfortunate task of having the most gruesome sendoff in the film, a moment that still makes me cringe big time). "Galaxy of Terror" was produced by low-budget meister Roger Corman. Low budget indeed. This film is so poorly made that you never get a good look at the monsters featured on screen. The special effects are cheesy; the screenplay appears to had been written in 2 days; and the acting is pathetic. But what keeps "Galaxy of Terror" from being one of the very worst movies ever made is that it's over in 81 minutes, and it's quite fast-paced. So it ends fast. Plus there are a couple of entertaining moments that were kind of exciting. But overall, it's really not worth anybody's time. Unless you want to watch some truly sickening moments, then tune in. If you dare. <br /><br />*1/2 (out of four)