I'm surprised to see so many positive reviews of this goofy movie, because I thought it was really lame. Incomprehensible, pretentious, shoddy and cheap are the descriptive words that sprang into my head while I was watching it. A spaceship is sent to follow the tracks of a previous mission that ended in disaster...the investigation reveals that something very mysterious was responsible for the death of all the crew - unfortunately, finding out the truth is an ordeal for both the characters in the movie and the for audience.<br /><br />The acting is mostly terrible. Nobody (re)acts like a normal person. Dialogue is brief and meaningless for a lot of the film's running time. Erin Moran's poor attempt at dramatic acting proves that she should have stuck with TV sitcoms, she ruins all the dialogue she has by making 50% of it impossible to understand, and the other 50% hammed up to the extreme - seemingly thinking that delivering even the most innocuous line through gritted teeth with eyes staring wide would contribute an atmosphere of suspense, but failing miserably. <br /><br />But she's not the only one. Zalman King does his usual wild-eyed, angry man job, again with half-baked lines of dialogue that neither illuminate or explain his character in any way. In fact the entire script is appalling, people continually deliver lines of dialogue that have no relation to anything previously said. Who wrote this rubbish? It has to be said that this film DOES rip of "Alien" and anyone claiming otherwise is just being kind. I mean, c'mon, those dark corridors with "industrial" vents and pipes at every angle? Exploring a giant otherworldly planet complete with gigantic organic looking structures? Almost every scene filled with loads of pitch blackness everywhere? Along the way, several of the characters die in grisly ways, well, they would be if the effects weren't so woeful. The "rape by giant worm" scene had me chuckling, and the scenes of bodies being ripped apart had really bad dummies that seemed to be completely hollow. The film's big "reveal" also makes a mockery of the deaths we witness - only about 2 or 3 of them could be attributed to the supposed cause - at least 4 of them were just typical alien tentacle/arms/claws,teeth pouncing from some vent or pipe, and grabbing/mauling/suckering the victim to death - YAWWNN! <br /><br />Because it's so nonsensical, don't be surprised if you lose interest if you experience this for the first time, and as for the ending - you have got to be kidding me - 80 minutes of my time for THAT payoff? I'd rather watch the cheaper and dafter "Starcrash" anytime over this. A big thumbs down in all departments.