The show first debuted with a fresh blend of comedy, action, a tad of romance, and a great set of characters, based off DC Comics' well known teen-age super-heroes. Unfortunately, it lost its spark in many ways... (Spoiler Alert) It all started when they decided to make Robin become obsessed with the big baddie of the show - Slade. It seemed too close to the formula of Luke Skywalker and Darth Vader of the "Star Wars" movies. But, Slade wasn't Robin's father, even though the series made slight hints at that. But this was obviously not true, since there were no more hints made after the first season. (PLOT HOLE!!) The second season, while having some good episodes, had some of the worst plot episodes invented. They introduced Terra, a girl who can't control her powers, and turned her into a spoiled brat who joins Slade for no apparent reason whatsoever. She said it was so she could learn how to harness her powers, but the other Titans could have helped her with that. Then, she tries to kill them all, and gets upset when they come back for revenge. The term, "You bought it!" comes to mind here. (Another PLOT HOLE!!) Then, they made a season all about Cyborg, which was one of the biggest bores in the entire show. He discovered (as he discovered in many other episodes) that he is still a human being. Then, they made him save the day in the cheesiest and lousiest way I think I've ever seen. His human spirit resists the mind control of the evil Brother Blood. Well, shouldn't the others' human spirits also be able to resist Brother Blood, since they're all human? (...except maybe Starfire and Raven.) (Yet another PLOT HOLE!!) Then, - speaking of Raven - the fourth season revolves all around her. But instead of keeping her in character, she becomes sappy and simpering, because she's destined to destroy the Earth. Then, why didn't she flee long ago, if she knew this was coming? Is she that thick? It seems unlike her to be so careless about something like that! (Well, well, looks like another PLOT HOLE!!) Then, the final season... the season I was hoping would be the best, turned out to be the worst. They went ahead and introduced all these new Titans, but hardly any of them had any screen time, because the show didn't have enough episodes to hold them all. Plus, they introduced Beast Boy's old team, the "Doom Patol", at the beginning, but they don't even help the Titans at the final battle. (Just some more of the PLOT HOLE virus.)<br /><br />Plus, the side episodes were either all about: Cyborg realizing he's human for the 300th time; Robin and Starfire drama; Beast Boy messing everything up, then saving the day; or Raven (who had the least side episodes out of all the characters) not really doing much.<br /><br />Still, it has some charms. But it's definitely not the best animated show out there. Then again, I don't think there are any animated shows worth comparing to it, so maybe I'm wrong.<br /><br />4/10.