This is another one of those movies shot on video with a nice looking DVD box that gives the impression it's actually a film, when in reality it looks like it was shot on super 8 video by the neighborhood kids. I know it was shot one a canon xg1 after watching the "making of" documentary (another one of these low budget films with a "making of" documentary that acts like they've just finished making Citizen Kane). Normally I stay away from these movies (I don't say film because it's not) because they're terrible and movies made by amateurs don't entertain me, but this was at the library and the library usually doesn't have these "shot on video" movies, so I duped! There's no logic in this movie whatsoever. For some reason, a vampire's blood turns people into zombies. It's never really explained why but there's lots of lapses in logic and stuff never explained in this garbage. Like when they find the body that hasn't decomposed like it you'd think it would have having been buried in a 120 year old cemetery, the police would be called since it was obviously just buried. But for some reason, the idiots in this movie are under the impression that it was buried in the 1880s and never decomposed. Also, they never seem to wonder why a "dead body's" eyes seem to flicker as if they were trying to pretend they were dead but are not.<br /><br />The "writer" of this movie is under the impression that hoards of zombies being shot is somehow scary. It's not. This is why just anyone should not be allowed to make a movie. There should be some sort of test you should have to pass first before being given a budget, any budget, to do something like this. If you're supposedly making a "horror" movie, learn about what is scary, not simply "ooh, it's zombies, and even though it's been done now a thousand times, people will think ours are great!" Of course the "acting" is awful but the direction is worse. Way, way too many close ups. The "directors" need to learn about "establishing shots" so the audience can have an idea what is going on, instead of these annoying constant close shots.<br /><br />My favorite part of the movie is when the girl asks the Sheriff "why don't you just run them over?" He was thinking "because they're unpaid extras. We just don't have the budget for it" <br /><br />But the thing that bugs me the most about garbage like this, is when you see comments in the IMDb where the people are praising this obviously awful movie. I mean, look at how many comments they have for other films. Zero. It's so transparent these are people from the movie, it's insulting. There's no way anyone in the world outside the production of this movie would actually think this thing is great and comment here on top. There should be some sort of rule that people who worked on a movie cannot comment on their own work in here.<br /><br />Avoid this garbage like the plague.