This movie is one that I will never forget in my life.It was such a big disappointment. The opening is very interesting, a man gets arrested. But that is actually the highlight of the movie, nothing else interesting happens. Shortly and frankly said, this movie sucks, it is not entertaining, neither is it exciting, nor is it worth watching. For the story itself, it is taken from a good environment. A female judge is fighting against rich evil powerful and corrupt men. The idea is excellent, but the way it is filmed is just garbage. I have to say it, this movie is BAD. How bad? Is it the worst french movie I have ever seen? Oh, undeniably, but that is not the point. The point is that this is the worst movie, I have ever seen in my life. As I have mentioned earlier, the idea of the story is interesting but the storyline in the movie just sucks. In some parts, the movie is just incomprehensible, so are some of the main characters. This movie is very boring too, there are only two exciting moments. First one is in the beginning when one of the rich men gets arrested. The second one is when the female judge finds out that someone destroyed her office, but you don't know who did it, nor why he or she did it. And finally what is the best way to end a shitty movie? With a shitty ending that is even more horrible. An ending that sucks so hard, it has scarfed me for life. The ending doesn't actually end the movie. There are still many questions to be answered and many things to be resolved. However the ending credits are a big relief, they end a long torture, a long suffering, that you cant wait to end. So its like getting liberated. I gave this movie one star, because that is just what it deserves. If it was possible to give zero stars I would have done it. I think that the problem is that the french just are not good at making movies. Yes, french comedies are great, like the TAXI series for example, which I love very much. But every french movie in my opinion is bad, unless it is a comedy or unless it has Jean Reno or Gerard Depardieu starring in it. Well that is it for my comment. It is my personal opinion and I respect anyone who happens to disagree with me.