Okay, I'll accept the fact that he can use all of these weapons without any prior knowledge of how to use them. I can accept the fact that this librarian will take him in, treat his wounds, and put herself in extreme amounts of danger even though he is a complete stranger and, probably, is the last person you should trust, all because he saved her life. I'll accept the fact that almost every character in this movie is a clone/rip off of the entire cast of El Mariachi. I'll even accept the horrendous sex scene which is just as bad as the abomination known as Ninja Scroll Resurrection, which by the way had tons and tons and tons of sex scenes bent on being violent and there for the sake of getting some sick and twisted individual horny as heck. But I left this movie after seeing the scene after the sex scene, where the Moco clone somehow managed to find out, with nothing but Selma Hyak's strange performance when he gets to her bookstore, that El Mariachi is in the book store being hidden by her character. I am not even going to bother seeing anymore of this stuff. I mean, seriously, what the heck? It's like he's assuming we'll buy anything he tries to sell. Almost as if he assumed that we wouldn't see El Mariachi, even though Columbia, according to Robert Rodriguez' diaries in Rebel Without a Crew, said they'd package both movies together when they were negotiating for the rights. I mean, for the love of God, why the heck would she automatically know how to become a surgeon just by reading a book? Are you kidding me? And, now correct me if I'm wrong, but at the end of El Mariachi, didn't he have more of a fake hand than a real one? Seemed like it was almost robotic to me when he drove off into the sunset. Yah, this is a bad way to start reviewing movies, and I'll attest that I thought El Mariachi and Once Upon a Time in Mexico were excellent movies for the lighting, special effects, and storytelling. But you couldn't pay me to see anymore of the dribble in Desperado. Not a single cent, I tell you now.