Years and years after I saw brief fragments of this absurdly grotesque Spanish "Superman" knock-off on TV, during a special about the worst movie productions ever made, I finally the full film for the first time! Special word of thanks to my good pal, and fellow IMDb-member Dario the 2nd and his endless movie collection! <br /><br />"Supersonic Man" is an indescribably yummy smörgåsbord of cheese, tackiness, decadence, incompetence, infantile enthusiasm and delirium. Theoretically speaking, this is presumably one of the worst movies ever made, but simultaneously also the most entertaining piece of rubbish I've seen in years. The slasher imitation "Pieces" and the creature feature wannabe "Slugs" already convinced me of writer/director Juan Piquer Simon's capacities as a bad B-movie maker, but "Supersonic Man" is undoubtedly the biggest accomplishment of his career. The plot isn't even remotely important – all you should know is that the titular hero has to prevent the ultra, super, massive, hyper evil mastermind Cameron Mitchell from obtaining world domination – but the moments of sheer priceless imbecility are plentiful and unintentionally hilarious. Just for fun; behold a short listing of the film's greatest *cough* highlights: <br /><br />+ Whenever he transforms into Supersonic Man, our hero wears an outfit that makes him look like a crossbreed between a flamboyant homosexual and a FILA wrestler. His exaggeratedly long and aimless flights over New York City are always accompanied by the cheesiest music ever composed. + Supersonic Man is an intergalactic hero who can fly through rock, hellfire and ice. However, he has his butt whooped at least three times during confrontations with ordinary thugs. Once even during a lame bar fight with crazy hillbilly music playing in the background. + The last thing you can say about Supersonic Man is that he doesn't have a sense of humor! He abuses his powers to go out and steal booze to go on a date and when he breaks out of a death trap in the open ocean, he flies in circles around his enemies for minutes just to toy with them. + There are cardboard bulldozers, cars spontaneously catching fire as they drive off cliffs and some of the craziest dialogs ever writer + Cameron Mitchell portrays the least modest mega-villain in cinema history. In one and the same dialog, he refers to himself as both Julius Caesar and our God almighty. His sidekick is a bulky and ultra slow- moving robot. At a certain point in the film the robot attacks a couple of people in a house, but basically all they should do is climb up some stairs and the stupid thing would be utterly powerless. <br /><br />In conclusion: a must for every self-respecting cinema connoisseur; duh!