Well, at least this one has closed captions AND DVD captions...if anyone cares! So, the deaf and hard of hearing can also enjoy watching films that are awful piles of dreck! It's interesting that two films in the IMDb Bottom 100 have similar titles. There is SNOWBOARD ACADEMY and SURF SCHOOL--which would apparently indicate that some sort of trend might be occurring. Perhaps there will be a ROLLER BLADE UNIVERSITY or the like coming out in the next few years! <br /><br />When the film begins, it's obvious that writer Joel Silverman had watched a lot of formulaic teen films from the last 25 years. All the characters seem like caricatures. There is the female Japanese exchange student who doesn't speak English (a knockoff of the female French exchange student from BETTER OFF DEAD), the hyper-religious mom and her hyper-square virgin son (straight from CARRIE--but without the insane magic powers), the obligatory black teen (from practically ALL teen movies--and why do they always come in ones?!), the punk rock-ish boy with weird hair (again, from most teen films), the Goth girl who is so obviously 'hot' underneath all that black makeup (but, of course, no one recognizes this) and gear and the very nice AND hot leading man (can't the leading guy NOT be hot for once?!). It's all about as believable as the Tooth Fairy and betrays hack writing.<br /><br />Taylor Negron and Diane Delano play an older couple who are rather repulsive. It's not just that they behave like horny dogs in heat but they are just gross people. Not a particularly pleasant couple and not what any sane person would consider 'comic relief'! There is a chimp on hand as well. Whenever the ape appears, references to bestiality seem to follow. Nice touch, huh?! The appearance of Harland William did not bode well. While he can be funny when he just talks off the cuff on TV, in films he has a very strong propensity to appear in ANYTHING...as long as it's bad. When ROCKETMAN is one of the best movie of his career, you know you're in trouble! The females in the movie, with the exception of the Goth girl, are there for pretty much one thing...sex. They are horny bimbos who have no depth whatsoever or personalities and they are nothing but walking pairs of breasts--which you see quite often. I doubt if N.O.W. would approve.<br /><br />The film is about a group of losers (listed above) who go to Costa Rica a week ahead of their fellow senior class members so they can ski the K-2...no, wait, that's also BETTER OFF DEAD (and about 4523 other teen films). No, they want to learn to surf and out-surf the stuck-up jerks who are graduating with them in only a few weeks. Wow,...now that's an important and worthwhile goal! <br /><br />Overall, there is really nothing to recommend this film. It's unfunny, crude, horribly written and appallingly unlikable. Remarks about body crabs and crotch itching, images of Williams sitting on the toilet taking a dump and, once again, the bestiality references make this one abominably offensive and stupid film. I could only imagine it being of interest to people who are either actively psychotic or under the influence of very, very strong intoxicants. A loser of a film that I couldn't have hated any more. Repellent garbage...at best.<br /><br />Currently, this film is ranked #50 on the IMDb Bottom 100 of the worst films ever made. I think this is way too generous and might just give the impression that this film is better than it actually is!