This is a black comedy and despite the famous cast, definitely not my cup of tea. The talents of the three famous actresses were wasted on this depressing bit of drivel. I prefer comedies of the heartwarming, romantic, light hearted, or zany school.<br /><br />The story revolves around three troubled sisters in a Southern town, who reunite when the youngest, Babe (rather a bizarre character), gets herself in a jam after shooting her husband. The oldest sister, Lenny, is an awkward spinster who has stayed home throughout the years caring for her father. The alcoholic, chain smoking middle sister, Meg, left home early in the hopes of making it as a singer & actress in Hollywood. There's also a jealous & snoopy cousin, Chick, who's basically the villain of the piece.<br /><br />It has a stellar cast, especially its three leading ladies in the roles of the neurotic sisters, who are all coping in their individual ways following the trauma of their mother's suicide by hanging. Diane Keaton plays the shy, insecure, stammering spinsterish Lenny, who feels herself inadequate to attract a man because of her inability to bear children (due to shrunken ovaries). Jessica Lange is cast as the wild sister, Meg, who hates her father and has had a string of failed relationships with men...including a current love interest, Doc Porter (played by Sam Shepherd). Sissy Spacek is the kooky younger sister, Babe, who married at a young age an abusive man. <br /><br />Presumably well crafted with great performances, but the tale of the personal demons troubling the three eccentric sisters simply doesn't make for humour, as I see it. When Babe shoots her husband, then goes into the kitchen to make a pitcher of lemonade, and offers him a glass...well, it's not something I find hilarious or entertaining to watch. It's set in the South, and for me the best part of the film is the wonderful old Victorian family home where the sisters reunite. Otherwise, I'll stick to the Steel Magnolias type when I feel like a movie interweaving the tales of a group of women.