I waited for too long for this movie to be released. This movie was a dud, disappointing and quite bad. The sets are terrible and choreography is pathetic. The movie not only looks outdated, but the story is old news. I know that this story was started eight years ago but they should have shelved it. Despite taking eight years to make, it was hilarious looking at the actors' different appearances. Shahrukh Khan is the only true performer out of the three main leads, but his character is a little far fetched hence resulting him in overacting in a scene or two. Madhuri Dixit was not bad, but certainly nothing to talk about especially after her performance in Lajja. Her character practically cries and smiles and says annoying dialogues trying to be sensuous. Salman Khan was disinterested. Shahrukh Khan was giving him an advantage in many scenes, but Salman Khan didn't try (though nobody can blame him). The saving grace of this movie was Aishwarya Rai. She is only in the movie for seven minutes, but with her beauty and monologue, we know why she is one of the top actresses today. The rest of the characters get on your nerves or are wasted. The songs weren't bad, but in the film they sure were. They cut out the best song, Khoye Khoye Din Hai (Lost Lost Days) and they left us with the title song which doesn't flow well with the movie. Sab Kuch Bhula Diya (Forgot Everything) fits the film best, but it was boring. Aa Gaya Aa Gaya (I Came, I Came), a nice song, and Gale Mein Laal Tayi, a naughty number, needed to be cut due to horrible picturization. Somebody needs tell Madhuri wearing sparkly clothes with a large stomach is not good (and outdated). Also there was nothing interesting about the stage shows . Dil Tod Aaya (I Broke the Heart) fits the film pretty nicely otherwise Salman Khan completely ruined the song with his singing and choreography. This movie is bad and deserves to be forgotten. If you want to watch a good movie from these actors watch: for Shahrukh: Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham; for Madhuri: Lajja; for Salman: Chori Chori Chupke Chupke; for Aishwarya: Hamara Dil Aapke Paas Hai.