I just came from seeing this so-called sci-fi political satire from Cameroon at the Toronto International Film Festival. I don't think I have the words to describe how bad this film was. Put it this way: about twenty minutes in, realizing that I was trapped in the middle of the row, I *willed myself to go to sleep so that the time would pass more quickly*.<br /><br />I couldn't believe such an amateurish piece made it to the internationally-renowned TIFF. The production values mirrored those of bad 70s-era BBC sci-fi television shows. From the end of the opening credits to the end of the closing credits, the editing was appalling. I think at times the director was intentionally using jump-cuts to create a sense of disorientation, but I can't be sure, since at certain times it simply looked like he was re-doing a take and not bothering to edit to a different POV to cover it up. The laughable acting, which might have been forgivable in a work by high-school film students, was hardly helped by a screenplay that left the audience incredulously trying to sort out what the hell had happened and how the hell we'd gotten to where we were. SPOILER, for those who still think they may bother to see it: The best (worst? funniest, at least) bit was the kung-fu/go-go-dancing climactic scene in which the two female protagonists overcame the Minister of State by invoking some kind of primal female life-force.<br /><br />This was, bar none, the worst movie I have ever seen. On the People's Choice ballot, I gave it a 1 out of 5. I was not the only one, by a long shot. If there had been negative numbers, I'm sure people would have gladly voted to take points away from their total score. I'm giving it a 2 here simply because I figure I should give it the benefit of the doubt for getting completed despite political and financial disadvantages. I couldn't believe there were still people left in the theatre at the end -- perhaps, like me, they were hoping that the Q&A would clear up their bewilderment. However, it turned out that the director was as inarticulate with words as he was with film -- even in French, his native language.