WARNING-potential SPOILER ALERT: Although I am a huge fan of Phillipa Gregory's work, I was extremely disappointed that she allowed the screenplay to be as awful as it was. I understand the historical inaccuracies (they are needed sometimes to make the story flow better) but some of them are grossly and unwisely used. Why is the King surprised to find Mary married when HE was the one that arranged the marriage to William Carey. Also Anne was not exiled to France because of showing off for the king, that was a random addition to the story line. The addition of the rape scene between Henry and Anne was by far the most horrifying of them all. The part wasn't even in Gregory's book!<br /><br />As far as casting goes, where to begin. The ONLY two roles cast correctly were Norfolk and Lady Elizabeth Boleyn both played spot on to the historical depiction of those people. Why did NATALIE PORTMAN play the legendary Anne Boleyn as a petty, grinning idiot. As far as grace goes, i guess some things cannot be taught. Anne Boleyn was graceful and intriguing, neither of which came out in Portman's portrayal. THOMAS BOLEYN'S casting was nothing short of a joke. Here is a person who was a savvy, manipulative business man willing to prostitute his daughters out for his own gain. Instead the audience has to watch a man who seems scared of his own shadow. Eric Bana could have made the role of the King very enjoyable if the writing of his role would have had any kind of substance. WILLIAM STAFFORD historically was a tall, handsome, strapping, and assertive man so why was the role given to a scrawny 12 year old look-alike? Costumes were another downfall. In the DVD extras, it was mentioned that the production "searched high and low for Tudor costumes but another production (Showtime's The Tudors) had used them all up." So the production was not intending to use original costumes based on the feel of the screenplay that was written. It seems an easy way out to use someone else's time and effort. Instead, the audience has to watch the characters prance around in the same dress just in different colors. The costumes looked very cheaply designed and made and it is evident on screen.<br /><br />Overall, this movie seemed to lack in so many areas and one has to wonder if so much money was spent to attain the three leads and had little money left to allocate elsewhere. If you love the Tudor era, I suggest you do not see this movie, it will just make you want to throw something at your TV.