I'll jump straight into it. Why, when the girls were just children, was their mother wearing a Elizabethan riding hat for her walking dress? At that time the Gable hood with flowing lappets hanging below the shoulders was still in. Then, why had no one given Bana a red wig when it is an historical fact that Henry VIII had red hair, from his mother Elizabeth of York? Why was it forgotten that Anne Boleyn's hair was black? Why did Mary wed Carey as an adult when in fact she was twelve years old when it happened? Why were the sisters wearing tiny crescent shaped coifs perched on their heads which didn't exist, and shewing their hair, to boot? Only in early Plantagenet times did 'virgins' shew their hair and matrons did not; by now it was normal for the tresses to be concealed behind the wimple on the rear of the hood. Mary was the elder sister, not the young one. Both sisters were sent to France to be educated when young; Anne was never exiled there. Anne was partial to the French hood (the curved one) in which she was later seen, and she did a very forward thing with it: she wore no wimple and her hair was so long she could sit on it. Why was Henry portrayed as reluctant to take a mistress when by the time he knocked Mary up he was already father to Henry Fitzroy, Duke of Richmond? Mary's son was just surnamed Carey because Henry had got involved with Anne by then and so no royal bastard surname for him, but he was made Lord Hunsford. Cath. of Aragon was fair of colouring; why was she made to dress in clothes like those of her daughter when portrayed in middle age? Why was Mary sent off in a coach when the first person to have one in England was the Duke of Rutland in 1555? What were Percheron horses doing drawing her wagon when they only 1st came to England in the 1880s? Eliz. Anne's daughter, spent her childhood with Anne of Cleves and then went to love with Cath. Parr, not her aunt Mary. Ohh, the side saddle - new? For 200 years, since it was introduced to England by RichardII's queen, Anne of Bohemia. It came from Transoxania, ruled by the Arabs, and was a camel saddle adapted for the horse and used for ceremonial purposes by men and women alike. The script was dreadful - looking for a great man - 'ooo, found 0ne!' How corny can you get? Why were there not two swordsmen at Anne's execution and why was it not explained that she requested them to be fetched specially from France? Many thanks for this space. This film was a series of gaffs and bad acting from start to finish.