This story is not close to being correct. First off, Anne was the younger sister (born in 1510). Mary was the mistress to King Francis of France she returned to England with Mary, Queen of France after the death of the French King Louis She became Henry's lover. She became pregnant and was married off to William Carey. The King NEVER acknowledged her child as his. Anne was STILL in France with Queen Claude. She was never banished to France. She returned to England when Henry changed allegiances from France to Spain. When Anne returned she fell in love with Harry Percy (who was NOT betrothed to anyone) It was a love match. The King saw Anne and became besotted. He had Cardinal Wolsey separate them and then Percy was married off to Mary Talbot. Henry adored Anne. He was never anything but generous to her and she hated him only a little less than she hated The Cardinal Wolsey. She blamed them for separating her from her love, Harry Percy. The King pursued her and she refused him, this went on for 6 years. she finally fell in love with him. They married (after he split from Rome) and were happy. Elizabeth was born, and Henry changed the Act of Succession to make Elizabeth his heir. It wasn't until the second death of a stillborn son that Henry had had enough. The saucy temperament and sharp tongue he loved in the beginning began to wear on him in the end. One of the greatest historical quotes is from Anne in the Tower "when I no longer hated him, he began to hate me"<br /><br />This is a great story if told correctly. This movie was awful. Anne was not guilty of adultery and the scene with her brother never happened.In fact it was the situation with Mark Smeaton a court musician that caused Anne's downfall. She was accused with him (he was tortured to admit guilt) and with all of Henry's friends from the time he had first met Anne, her brother was thrown in to make sure there was no sympathy for the Queen. Interestingly, even though most of the people hated Anne for what had happened to Katherine, Henry's actions made the people sympathetic to Anne as they did not believe her guilty of what she was accused. Jane Seymour was no longer a secret. I am amazed that such an inaccurate movie would be made and the worst part of this is that in a time when women had little to no power, a young girl changed the face of the world.<br /><br />By refusing the greatest man in the land..The King. Her end was tragic and not her fault. It was the doing a spoiled and old man who was always looking for the greener grass. The movie was shot horribly and the costumes were seen too often. Katherine of Aragon was not an ugly woman but one worn down by lost children and a philandering husband.<br /><br />The best movie on this subject was Anne of The Thousand Days. The Tudors on Showtime is good but also rife with historical inaccuracies. Mary was not the saint she was made out to be but a whore who gave everyone everything and asked for nothing. She did live a quite life after the death of her sister.<br /><br />And her children were honored by Elizabeth I