Kirk Wong's "The Big Hit" of 1998 has a funny premise - a professional killer who happens to be the friendliest guy one could imagine. And it is a funny film occasionally, but it also annoys with its constant attempt of being the hippest movie ever made, and partly seems like an overlong rap-video, which is more than tiring after a while. There are some hilarious sequences, but, unfortunately, the annoying ones overwhelm.<br /><br />Melvin Smiley (Mark Wahlberg)is a professional assassin. And he is a really, really nice guy. Actually, he is such a nice guy that he is just being used by his two smoking hot girlfriends (played by Christina Applegate and Lela Rochon), and most of his hit-men buddies also hoodwink him whenever they can...<br /><br />...These hit-men friends are played by Lou Diamond Phillips, Bookeem Woodbine and Antonio Sobato Jr., and although I wouldn't necessarily say that any of their performances sucked big time, they are not really worth mentioning either, and neither is the performance of Wahlberg himself. OK, Lou Diamond Phillips is quite funny at times, but as often as his character is funny, he is also annoying, simply because he is too exaggerated and stereotypical. Christina Applegate and Lela Rochon make a good looking female supporting cast, one of the few truly good performances however, is delivered by the beautiful China Chow, who plays the daughter of a rich Japanese businessman in the female lead. The supporting cast includes Elliot Gould, who, not surprisingly, delivers the best performance in the film, and Avery Brooks, who also fits in quite well as the hit-men's boss.<br /><br />"The Big Hit" is an endurable time-waster if you really have nothing better to do, but over-all the attempts of being the 'cooooolest' film that ever hit the screen are just too annoying to really have a good time. This film was produced by cult director John Woo. John Woo was a brilliant filmmaker in his Hong Kong days, with great titles such as "A Better Tomorrow", "The Killer" or "Bullet In The Head", but at the latest since after the passable "Face/Off", his name is connected with blockbusters that barely reach mediocrity, such as "The Big Hit". What a pity.