"Failure to Launch" could have been a really fun and offbeat romantic comedy, but it is instead a sub-par and obnoxious one. The premise of "Failure" is interesting enough. Basically, the film is about Tripp (Matthew McConaughey), a man who still lives with his parents as an adult. Paula, played by Sarah Jessica Parker, is a specialist in getting men to move out of their parents's homes. Of course, Tripp's parents, played by Kathy Bates and Terry Bradshaw, hire Paula to get Tripp out. This a decent premise, but the film fails to launch. McConaughey was the wrong choice for Tripp. I couldn't stand his over-the-top accent, and I didn't believe for one second that he was the kind of guy who would be living at his parents's house into his thirties. In addition, he's not a very nice guy, and I didn't feel a lick of sympathy or liking for him or his character during the film. Also, he keeps being bitten by wild animals, which is supposed to be funny but is actually strange and stupid. It takes away any reality from the film.<br /><br />Parker tries hard to play Paula as a misunderstood woman, but comes off as a manipulative witch. I didn't like either Tripp or Paula, and the film would have been much better had they gotten what they deserved in the end: a couple of punches in the face. Kathy Bates did nothing for the film, as usual, simply acting like any over-bearing and spoiling mother would. Terry Bradshaw was also awful, actually revealing his disgusting rear end at one point in the film. The only good performance in the film was Zooey Deschanel as Paula's room-mate. She does not try to be a phony like the rest of the characters, and I enjoyed the scenes where she tried to kill the mockingbird that kept on chirping outside of her window. The scenes with Zooey were the only funny moments in the film.<br /><br />Still, I can't dignify giving "Failure"a one out of ten because it does show sparks of originality and shows some potential at times. Still, it's not a good movie.<br /><br />4/10