Two scientists / lovers, Adam and Alex are stationed on Saturn's third moon seeking possible sources of food for Earth's growing shortage. Soon Benson, who's posing as Captain James, joins them and he has brought along components of a robot called Hector. He can control its actions with his brain, as he can be connected to it with a device in the back of his neck. Though his lustful feelings for Alex and psychotic intentions, infects Hector and causes it to go berserk.<br /><br />Danger, danger! What could have been a Sci-fi film brimming with ambitious ideas, turns out to be a increasingly derivative story that just never gets off the ground and languishes in its uneventfully bonkers premise. It occasionally gets quite nasty and sleazy, but never goes anywhere with this voyeuristic touch to make you squirm. Instead this is given pretty risible treatment. If you going to make something this dumb, it better be shamelessly fun when it finally goes haywire. Honestly for me, that didn't occur much. It takes its sweet time to build up the situation, after watching the characters lounging about aimlessly and eyeing each other off. There's just too much time to kill, as there's little to no suspense generated. From a guy who has done some light-hearted movies ("Singing in the Rain", "Lucky Lady" and "Bedazzled"), director Stanley Donen didn't seem to adjust to the material. He went fishing for the thrills in a very unfulfilling manner and slack pacing eventuated from it too.<br /><br />What kept me watching were the impressive images in this technically well-made enterprise. The imaginative set pieces and overall design are vividly detailed that you could see where most of the money gone too. The special effects also were exemplary staged and especially convincing. Hector the randy robot is one ominous creation and this showers the dreary air. A broodingly understated music score was integrated successfully and the polish photography had a muggy tinge to it as its filmed in such dour lighting. It's lavished A-grade production values stuck in a cheesy B-grade format. The main influence for this would be the soddenly dire script that spits out some dreadful dialogues. The flimsy story is weakly drawn up as it's filled with baffling intentions and abrupt plot-holes. A fine cast isn't given a whole lot to do. Kirk Douglas floats by in very little effort and might be the film's slight energy. Scary, since how old was he? A lot of the interest arose from his performance. Harvey Keitel sounds unrecognizable and is plain deadpan in delivery. As for Farrah Fawcett, she's totally lacking in her acting skills here and provides a child-like innocence to her part. I guess on this occasion we're only supposed to drool over this benchmark 70s pinup girl.<br /><br />It has some minor moments, but this mostly cold and uninspired shocker doesn't get up to too much trouble.