I have mixed feelings about this particular DVD release. I have watched this particular version of A Little Princess every Christmas for 10 years, so I know it by heart. It's my adult guilty pleasure. Originally, I had a cherished, recorded-from-the-TV version in 3 parts, and then a few years ago I bought a second-hand copy of the VHS. The only difference was that there were no recaps at the start of each chapter, like on my original recorded version. (I admit that I sort of missed them.. )<br /><br />I was thrilled to discover that this childhood favourite was FINALLY on DVD. I ordered it as soon as it was available, thinking I could finally replace my worn out VHS copy. Imagine my surprise when scenes I had never seen before began to appear in this DVD version. I thought it must be the original version as broadcast in 1986, as it was in 6 parts instead of 3. I was very excited at getting to see new material of this wonderful classic - until I realized to my dismay that some scenes were also cut out! For example, the scene where Sarah tells Lottie about heaven. Removed. And the scene where young Donald Carmichael goes to cheer up Carrisford, and the latter offers him some orange cordial. Gone. I know that it's only 30 or so seconds here and there, but those were two of my favourite scenes. And even though they've added new scenes that change the storyline slightly here and there, the scenes that they cut out would not have conflicted with the "new" material at all! <br /><br />Even the dialogue is ever so slightly different in places. No, it's not brand new voice-overs, it's like they originally recorded two versions of some scenes and aired one set on TV, but used the other set for this DVD. The DVD somehow seems... less British. Example: Ermengarde asks about Sarah's "playroom". In my VHS version, she asks about Sarah's "sitting room". Not to mention that the ending is changed quite a bit.. there is no longer any mention of the Ralph Crewe home for waifs and strays. <br /><br />Why would they chop stuff out and change it like this? I guess I'll have to continue hanging on to my old used VHS copy and occasionally watch this new version and see if I grow to accept it too. I hope another DVD is released with the version I know and love. One with these unfamiliar scenes added in bonus features.. or if this IS the original, then please put back the removed scenes as bonus features!<br /><br />To sum up: Hurray it's out on DVD. Hurray for new scenes that add more depth to my experience of this version of A Little Princess (though I would have preferred them as bonus features). Boooo to cutting out some really charming scenes and changing the dialogue for perhaps a more American audience (i.e. for no apparent reason).