This movie is an unbelievable drag... first of all it has a very trashy look that is obvious from the opening of the movie. The acting is rather unrealistic, the characters couldn't make you care less and the plot evolves unbelievably slow. There are dialogs in this movie that take forever and make no point. When a Detective talks to the Surgeon I though the movie switched to slow motion or someone dropped downers in my drink. Besides these endless sequences with barely anything happening or people talking you get ridiculous over-acting. Watch out for the gay couple in the human meat bar or the epileptic stabbing of the surgeons young colleague. There's plenty of scenes that are beyond ridiculous and many don't push the plot at all.<br /><br />So what do you get? A surgeon working in a beauty clinic gets obsessed with female meat, starts taking home fat and body parts and cooking them and obviously soon starts killing for fresh meat. Thats about it... he goes on a trip to Hongkong to search for human meat traders, ends up in a discotheque where he meets a girl who soon reveals she wants to be eaten. All this happens in a totally random fashion.. and after that Mr. Surgeon drives home and the plot continues.<br /><br />Most of the movie is not really repulsive except for the fact that the cinematography is pretty ugly and tasteless throughout the movie. By the end you get a load of gore that looks unbelievably fake (best joke when heads fall out his closet and he beats a guy with one of the heads which is obviously just one of these plastic heads with a wig on. Its hard to say if "Last supper" was supposed to be funny or is unintentionally funny because the crass overacting and the over the top sound FX that remind me of one of those horror-sample CDs are laughable.<br /><br />I have seen many Asian movies and know they can be pretty slow but this one takes it to the top and makes you wonder why the heck a dozen of scenes are stretched to the max. This movie is as entertaining was watching paint dry and horror fans should fast forward to the end to save 90 minutes of their precious lifetime.