Anyone who has seen this film will surely not give it 9 out of 10 or even 3 out of 10 lest large amounts of liquor mixed with unleaded gasoline are involved. We as viewers are subjected to empty scenes filled with not only bad direction, but terrible dialog all set in a landscape that almost has nothing to do with the past films in this series. It's hard to find a place to start with such a terrible film, so let's go with the lead actress Sue Price. Though her acting has improved from the previous films (due to large part of her being voiced over) she still looks like she has nothing better to do then pace around in a scene to waste film and expand the films running time. Now, I will be the first to say that she has wonderful muscular body which I am sure took years of passion and hard work to achieve, but that is not enough criteria for her to be placed into a film wearing a white ala Marilyn Monroe dress and made to walk around the ghettos of Bulgaria. In her past incarnations of this character she was placed in South Africa, which in some strange way was at least passable on screen even if the story and direction was so bad that Roger Corman would look at it and say, WTF. We began with a tribal African warrior, genetic mutant chic from the future to a neo-German trash naked killer who likes to liftweights in the film because it helps her think. Beyond the crap setting of the film and ridiculous makeup, along with horrible special effects (what little there were) there is huge amount of nudity. Okay, Sue Price has an impressive body but I don't want to see it every other scene, or for that fact ever. There is a thick line between sexy innuendos in a movie to blatant nudity for no reason what so ever. One scene actually has our heroine strip from head to toe right before she knocks out another bad guy. Once he has been incapacitated she stands above him naked, get this - lifting weights!?! This is not art; it's an attempt to show skin for the foreign fetish market. I don't even want to mention how she has needles that come out from his chest to finish off her victim. (I thought she wasn't a cyborg to begin with?) Whatever lost clever moments that might have had a chance from Nemesis 2 and 3 are replaced with quickly filmed garbage, with a script that from what I can tell was written on a cocktail napkin, vomited on and then given to the actors to read as the scene was being filmed. This film couldn't float on water even if they were made of air. One line states "do you hear angels crying?" I would say no, but there is no question they are laughing.