Wolfhound is a supernatural thriller type film. There's plenty of nudity, although the violence was a little lacking. It also seems that the film makers didn't follow through with all of their plot ends or ran short on funds or some other such nonsense (I will elaborate below).<br /><br />Colum is a young writer with a family. He moves his wife and kids back to his home town in rural Ireland so that he can concentrate on writing a book. As the film drags on (I stress that it drags), Colum's wife begins to realize that her husband has been keeping a secret from her all these years. While staying in Ireland, Colum begins hooking up with an Irish Wolfhound that can transform itself into a beautiful woman (you'll just have to take my word on this one). The woman is trying to help him remember that he is also a wolfhound and that his human form is only one side of him. As a matter of fact, the entire populace of the village are actually animals that take human form. Colum has to realize his animal powers in time to save his wife from the local bully.<br /><br />The real problem that I've got with this thing is that they didn't really explain some things that they should have. I can forgive not knowing what happens to the hero at the end of the movie and the minutia that is only kind of a cute sub plot. However, in this thing they frequently mention that Colum's parents died in their late twenties and they don't say how or why he moved out of the village. We can assume that his parents met an untimely end. However, they stress the death of his parents being such a turning point and it is never really adequately explained. They also never fully explain the gorgeous woman wolfhound's relationship with him. She mentions that she's been waiting for him to return, but why? We don't know why or when he left, so there's nothing really to gauge his past on. I don't mind ambiguity in films, but still. It looks like they tried to make a modern day Hitchcockian film, but royally screwed up.