A successful author, Colum(Allen Scotti) returns to his ancestral home in an Irish village with wife, son and daughter in tow hoping to rekindle possible memories of slain parents he never knew. What he does discover is that inside him lying dormant is an animal desiring to get out. Threatening his well being is an imposing, gruff villager, Macroth(Brian Monahan)who may very well have been behind the death of his parents. Colum's wife, Stella(Jennifer Courtney), wishes to go home, quite a city gal longing for her hot coffee from Starbucks, having a great deal of trouble adjusting to her new environs. What's worse is that she feels a rift coming between her and Colum whose behavior is questionable. Colum realizes that an Irish wolfhound scouring about his cottage's grounds is in fact the animal form of a beautiful, voluptuous woman, Siobahn(Julie Cialini)who wishes to make passionate sexual contact with him. After succumbing to Siobahn's seductive allure, Colum finds the beast within starting to emerge, while Stella yearns to leave without him if necessary. Meanwhile Macroth eyes Stella causing quite a bit of friction between all involved. What Colum and Stella soon find is that the village folk are not all they appear to be.<br /><br />Ambitious but lackluster fantasy regarding a village of people who can actually transform into animals. Like Macroth who changes into a wolfhound like Siobahn. Another changes into a crow. The plot resembles the story of Cat People ever so slightly, but I had a problem with how the fantasy element of transformation is handled..it deserves more exposition as does how Colum's parents died. I think a great deal of the film is little more than getting Julie Cialini as naked as possible. Certainly her delicious naked flesh doesn't hurt, as long as she kept her mouth shut, but I didn't think she had that many sparks with Allen Scotti, for whom is her sexual partner during a few scenes. I never thought their love-making provided the right amount of erotic heat which is surprising since chains get thrown into the mix and blue light(..often quite an effective tool for erotica)within night scenes never quite elicits fireworks. The fight scenes between Macroth and Colum never catch fire either and have clumsily inserted dogs growling in the attempts to sell the beasts themselves attacking. The morphing sequences from human to beast leave much to be desired. Special effects in this film just are too cheap to effectively convey what the director so desires and he often has to resort to the use of objects to cloud humans before and during their transformation to, I guess, save on what little budget he obviously had. There's an unnecessary sex scene between Colum and two lesbian women(..Julie K & Regina Russell)that should also be erotic but comes off surprisingly empty because the director fails to establish whether or not they're actually even on top of him! I'd suggest seeing this merely to see Cialini naked, slapping Colum as he's chained to the bed while on top of him having the ride of her life. She also has a rather effective strip scene, removing her gown inviting pleasure. Maybe the problem is the lead actor, Scotti, who fails to generate fire with his new lover or a sense of love with his wife. The character of Stella spends most of the screen time upset with her husband's decision to leave home, feeling distant from Colum, or warding off Macroth's advances.