<br /><br />Rating: 2 out of 10; 1/2 Star<br /><br />Part II<br /><br />More problems with the film:<br /><br />(6) MAJOR FUDGING OF HISTORY, 1982 NCAA Finals, UNC vs. Georgetown - In the film, Jordan hits the game winning jumper and the clock runs out. The film skips what happened in real life after Jordan hit that jumper. Jordan hit the jumper with about 16 seconds left on the clock, to put UNC up by one. Georgetown brought the ball up past half-court with about 9 seconds left on the clock, and Georgetown's Fred Brown inexplicably passed the ball to UNC's James Worthy, who raced to the other end of the court and was fouled. This sealed the game. The film pretends like it never happened, because when the film shows time run out in the game, Jordan is in the same spot where he hit his jumper, and his teammates rush to him to congratulate him. (7) No 1984 Olympics? (8) Chicago Stadium, 1984 - The film tries to get across the point that home attendance was very low for the Bulls before Jordan's arrival. It over-exaggerates. The film shows part of a game during Jordan's rookie year. There are about 200 people in the stands, and most of the people at the press table seem to be either half asleep or distracted by boredom. In reality, the Bulls averaged around 6,000 fans per game at home when Jordan first joined the team. The film strains credibility here. (9) Broxton - who is this guy? The film has some fictional hotheaded team member named Broxton confronting Jordan early in Jordan's career, grilling Jordan about not being a team player. This guy doesn't appear in any official NBA guide I've seen. (10) Chicago, 1986 - Jordan is completely bald, for reasons undisclosed; in reality, Jordan didn't actually start shaving his head bald until around 1989, after about two years of showing thinning hair in spots; Jordan inherited his father's follicles. (11) No foot injury in 1986? This seems like an important career circumstance not to skip over; Jordan missed 64 regular season games during the 1985-86 season, but came back for the playoffs to score 63 in a 1st round game vs. the Celtics. (12) The gratuitous leg shot of Robin Givens getting into a taxi - I've got no problem with this, visually; however, I'm sure Juanita Jordan might have something to say about it. (13) Chicago, 1989 - Phil Jackson becomes the Bulls' head coach, and the Bulls have a title contending team; what happened to Doug Collins? what happened to the Charles Oakley for Bill Cartwright trade? we should have at least seen some sort of transitional montage, as the team gets better with players like Scottie Pippen, Horace Grant, etc; nothing about playoff frustration against the Celtics and Pistons? (14) Zen master, Phil Jackson - yeah, Phil is a philosopher and a spiritual guy, but here he's a cross between Mr. Miyagi and Yoda; I doubt Phil is that wacky, and he is a very good basketball mind. (15) 1991 Playoffs - In the film, an announcer says, "The Bulls down the New York Knicks and are on their way to the first NBA championship series in their history."; the Knicks were actually the Bulls 1st round victims in the 1991 playoffs; Philadelphia and Detroit followed in the Eastern Conference. (16) 1991 on-court Championship celebration is overly staged. (17) United Center/Chicago Stadium - The Bulls did not move into the United Center until the 1993-94 season, during which Jordan was temporarily retired; in the film, it is spring 1993, and Jordan pulls into a stadium parking lot, where he talks with some kids; you can make out a partially obscured sign in the background, which says, "ED CENTER"; the Bulls played in Chicago Stadium during the 1992-93 season, as the United Center was still under construction. (18) The aforementioned kids Jordan talks with in the stadium parking lot - those kids could never have just walked into the player parking lot for Chicago Stadium or the United Center. (19) 1993 Eastern Conference Championship series - The film has an announcer claiming that the Knicks have just defeated the Bulls in the 3rd game of the Eastern Conference Finals; this is wrong; The Bulls trailed 2-0 after 2 losses in New York, and came back to win the series 4-2. (20) Post 1993 Championship - In the film, James Jordan sits in the arena where the final game of the 1993 NBA Finals was played (America West Arena; Phoenix, AZ) and talks with a character who is supposed to be a long time Chicago Stadium employee (played by Lou Rawls); their conversation seems to indicate that the two are at Chicago Stadium in Chicago, IL; Lou Rawls' character says that he's been working "this place" for a lot of years and before Michael Jordan arrived, you could shoot a cannon through "this place" and nobody would even hear it. (21) Birmingham Barons homerun - Jordan did hit two homers with the Barons in his first minor league season; the film shows Jordan hit one over the fence with the Barons in what appears to be a practice game or batting practice, not an actual game; the film is unclear what the circumstances are. (22) March 1995 - why stop here? "Space Jam" already covered much of this territory; we know that Jordan did not return to the Bulls in top form, and the Bulls lost to Orlando in the 1995 playoffs; we know that Jordan worked hard in the 1995 off-season to get back to top form, and he led the Bulls to 3 more consecutive championships; we know about the final shot of Jordan's career in June 1998.<br /><br />The major problems with this movie are a bad concept, poor script, poor research, and a cheap budget. Some of the problems are a surprise, considering that Fox Family has money. This film ranks among the worst sports movies of all-time.