Italian horror legend Lucio Fulci (1927-1996) did a great amount of atmospheric and wonderful Spaghetti horrors during his prolific career, his masterpieces being Zombie Flesh-Eaters (1979), The Beyond (1981), The House by the Cemetery (1982) and Don't Torture a Duckling (1972) among many other more or less interesting and noteworthy films from the horror or other genres. His masterpieces have wonderful soundtracks by composer Fabio Frizzi, great cinematography by Sergio Salvati and the kind of surreal and infernal ultra gory imagery that will stay inside the mind especially when experience for the first time. But his career has the other side, too, these ultra braindead cheapies that are so painful to watch especially if one appreciates the director at all.<br /><br />Demonia is Fulci's attempt in the nunsploitation genre, at least kind of. It has a historical background as a bunch of Sicilian nuns were brutally killed in the convent as they had practised something the others judged as evil and satanic. This is shown as a flashback, just like in his The Beyond, but so much less effectively and it comes clear in this very beginning that even the gore effects are very bad and stupid in the film. Then we jump to the present day as some group of archeologists search for treasures from the historic times (if I'm correct, the mentioned nun killing took place in the sixteenth century) and naturally neither the villagers nor the raising evil spirits like this too much and soon the bloody killings begin...as well as all the possible errors and negative sides a film can have.<br /><br />There are hardly any positive things to be said about this piece of cinematic garbage. None of the Fulci magic is left. Some of the dream sequences and close-ups of frightened eyes remind me distantly of Lucio Fulci but still, there's nothing in the imagery that would save the film. The ending has some nightmarish scenes and images as the nuns return from the beyond, but The Beyond shows how great that kind of scenes can be. The music is also horrible and probably taken from a commercial or something like that. It doesn't create atmosphere and terror as Frizzi did but is there in order to make the silent scenes not to look so dull, which they still are as well as the whole film. What's there is the graphic gore and very boring 80 minutes.<br /><br />The film almost gives a new meaning to the phrase "dead boring" as it has some laughably long dialogue sequences which almost force to stop the viewing. The characters are uninteresting, but fortunately don't over-act too much, the plot is nothing too special (but could have been interesting if made by Fulci ten years earlier) and every single element in the piece screams in tired pain as does the viewer too. The film also looks very amateurish as if done by a bunch of amateurs and it is no wonder this didn't even have a theatrical run in Italy.<br /><br />The gore scenes are also very bad and the effects don't even look real as they did in the classics, created by Gianneto de Rossi. They are quite sadistic and graphic at times, the "body splitting" and tongue impaling, being the most memorable examples, but still they are not as haunting as in the earlier films that were also effected by the soundtrack and visuals. Now there's plenty of gore but hardly any impact. They show more than Deodato did in Cut and Run, for example, but as everything around the scenes sucks, it is hard to take the horror shocks too seriously. The butcher house sequence, however, is a pretty nasty as an idea and has some interest in it, too, and that is also easily among the film's "most interesting" parts. And the guy really has a tongue that makes Gene Simmons look green in comparison.<br /><br />Demonia is a very, very bad film even as a fan of Lucio Fulci. It has practically nothing to make it worth recommending, only those very few distant things mentioned above and I think it is rather impossible to watch this film again. It is so bad, as unfortunately was the state of Fulci's career when he was forced to make films like these. 2/10 and very barely so.