What was probably the last "big" news "erotic" film before video took over and the porno industry went where it belongs, on the home VCR, "Curse of Debbie Does Dallas" (just like some old porno films, they have changed the name of the documentary to re-market it) could have made an interesting jumping point for a discussion on the porno industry, the country that supports it and the psychology that drives it. <br /><br />Instead we are given yet another "dregs of humanity" portrait that's been done before. A telling point is that the "moral" voice of the film is given to the FBI agent who tells of his disdain for erotic films several times. Granted that the man spent years chasing the criminals who ran the industry but his position is the easy way out. Actually the story of his exploits, which are very interesting, have been done elsewhere in more detail. A strange point is when he tries to categorized which type of child pornography "really" bothers him. Yes, the porno industry is a sad, sleazy place but we know that already. What we need to know is what drives it, why do people hate it yet spend billions of dollars to get the product. Why is it a shameful place to work for all but a few uninhibited people?<br /><br />Questions that come up are ignored so the film can focus on the shame and misery and exploitation of the performers. The documentary spends time on "all" the performers who died, implying that they either overdosed or committed suicide while giving no real statistical evidence that the rates are higher then in the general population. Possibly it is but we need to see some real evidence not anecdotal comments from the interviewees. "R. Bolla" seems like a sad case until you check out how many porno films he has done. How can someone do dozens of porno films over the span of a decade and then wonder why the "normal" entertainment industry doesn't want anything to do with him. Why are people bigoted against him and why is he unaware of the position he put himself into? More questions unasked. When the only actress interviewed, Robin Byrd, says that she has nothing to be ashamed of, the statement is just left there. Most of the other interviews are interesting on their own but don't add up in the film. It would have been interesting to explore why some of the female performers are so ashamed of their participation in the film that they refused to be interviewed yet the men have no qualms. The difference between the late 1970's and now could have been interesting. And the similarities.<br /><br />You're better off renting "Boogie Nights". It's a fictional story yet has more real answers.