I am admittedly one of the biggest highlander geeks out there. I have all the DVD's (and VHS before that), I own swords and clothes from both the movies and the series. I am a huge sci-fi geek and I can always find some reason to like a sci-fi movie that nearly everyone else laughs at... UNTIL NOW! <br /><br />The Source is probably the worst movie I have ever seen in my life. I wanted it to be good. I really did. From the first opening scene and voice over, I was trying to like this movie. I kept asking myself, "what is this?" I can explain in great detail every aspect of the Highlander mythology… and I don't see how this movie fits in it at all. I feel badly for Mr. Paul. What little he was able to do for this movie was not nearly enough to justify the existence of such a bad movie. I find it amazing that teenage girls would be able to hold Adrian's amazing physique as justification for liking this movie. And as much as I love to look at him, this movie is simply too horrible for even my beloved 'Duncan' to save. I will just have to watch the series or 'End Game' for my Adrian fix.<br /><br />The writers should be shot but only after many long years of heinous torture. I know… we could make them watch this movie, over and over again. What were they thinking? Really, I would like to know. The Highlander mythology is so rich and wonderful it would have been easy – even for me – to write a plot for a movie. So, why was it so hard for them? <br /><br />With the story alone being so horrible it makes the rest of the movie making process seem almost insignificant for discussion. However, I think it might have been possible to make the movie watchable through the other aspects of the movie making process. So to that end I sadly comment: •the director is horrible and should not be allowed to continue to work in the industry. •The editor's clumsy cuts show an amateur pretending to be a professional •The music. Oh, what have they done to the music? Seriously, how much would it have cost to get the original music or just pay any of the many out of work composers to come up with something fitting? •There were actual drop outs and wow's in the sound… again, most amateurs would probably not have made these mistakes, how could a professional? I have seen student films that got F's that were handled better. •What little the actor's were allowed to do was not enough. They came off a flat or two dimensional. The only character I actually recognized at all was Methos. I know that Adrian, Jim and Peter can act, but this movie hides that fact very well.<br /><br />I was bitterly disappointed by this movie. I feel betrayed by the film makers who took a mythology that is precious to me and distorted it so much as to render it unrecognizable. I would have been there greatest advocate… but this movie is far too bad.