After seeing this crap I just could not hold myself from vomiting. My mind couldn't continue to accept and defy reason. A bunch of soccer moms, a crack head, a gardener, a tight jeans cameraman and a few nerdy scientists battle against the intergalactic equivalent of the US navy seals or the German waffen SS and win every time? Suddenly regular people know how to shoot rocket launchers and machine guns with hawk eye precision? And that blondie Sylvia Saint look alike ( she's very hot btw ) is the most unlikely leader I've ever seen. How the hell did Barbie got chosen to be the resistance leader? The resistance seems to pick their camps with gorgeous views behind, sometimes it gets so cheesy it seems you are watching an afternoon soap opera.<br /><br />C'on Now, on to the invaders. How can they be so stupid? They are far too technologically advanced and superior to us and apparently they haven't discovered recycling nor farming nor animal domestication to feed their starving people on their home planet? Oh and here's the SUPER secret formula for water invaders: H 20! Plus they are the wimpiest fascists since the Italians in WW 2, they can't seem to plan or execute anything right. Everything they plan goes wrong all the time. And let's not talk about security, one pass apparently opens every door in the mother ship.... or perhaps they don't even bother to lock the doors or update their security codes up there.<br /><br />V: the final battle gets more unbelievably stupid as it goes on. By the time this crap is about to end you'd expect the Ewoks or ALF to show up anytime soon. Diana continues to be super hot even with those terrible 80's hair styles and I guess there was no teeth whitening in the 80's. Many in that cast really needed one.<br /><br />Very disappointing. You can see why creator Kenneth Johnson wants to scrap the whole thing. Great television turned into sappy sentiment. The Visitors come across as imbeciles rather than ruthless villains. The resistance as a gang of klutzes, I really hated the part where they resorted to germ warfare. Nobody raised a moral objection to it. Really sad. And the Visitors can't cure the red dust, stupid. Really lame. Maybe next time they'll get V right.