The Final Sacrifice is the perfect example of a Canadian movie that had potential. It had the basic story of an unlikely duo teaming up and fighting an evil cult. Very Indiana Jones-esquire. But that's where the creativity stops.<br /><br />The movie starts with a short scene of an unknown man being chased by unknown thugs. I think the important thing here is to see the hockey-haired, trenchcoat wearing man who is obviously our villain. The scene ends with the unknown man being shot, but this is expertly done by simply showing a stand of trees, and a gunshot played over as a sound effect. After seven years of credits, we see a boy visiting a grave that one has to assume is that of the man who was shot in the scene earlier. This then cuts to a scene of the boy finding something about lemon mines in the attic, and a VERY wrinkly letter from "Mike Pipper". This then cuts to a short scene about a guy unable to start his car. And then back to the boy. As he apparently studies about lemon mines in the comfort of his home, he is outwitted and then attacked by a hood. His house is overrun by machete wielding grunts, led by the same man from the first scene, who apparently decided seven years of hockey hair was enough, and got it changed. The ensuing chase of a car NOT being able to catch up to a skinny guy on a bike is very heart pounding.<br /><br />As the movie progresses, the boy, named Troy, meets up with our hero. The legendary Zap Rowsdower! The two have a long series of misadventures, one of the highlights being Rowsdower accidentally bumping his crotch against Troy in an underground tunnel. After a lot of chasing, and a VERY scary grizzled mountain man who sounds like a mix of Yosemite Sam and Randy "Macho Man" Savage, the movie ends with Troy being selected as the final sacrifice, which will give the bad guy with big nostrils an invincible army of zombies, with which he can take over Canada, and then get demolished by every other country in the world.<br /><br />I won't spoil the ending, but suffice to say, you know it's coming. The movie is uninspired, boring, and just plain bad. Mike and the bots work their magic on this one, creating a very memorable episode from the not as wonderful Sci-Fi era of Mystery Science Theater 3000.