I am a fan of Bela Lugosi but I also realize that he often appeared in cheesy films. However, much of this cheese was actually a lot of fun to watch despite the low budgets and silly writing. Sadly, however, this film is neither well made nor is it cheesy fun--just amazingly dull.<br /><br />The film begins with the old Monogram Studios logo--the one with the monorails and zeppelins. Despite this cool start, I also immediately realized that because it was made by a so-called "Poverty Row" studio, that the budget and overall quality would be suspect.<br /><br />Wallace Ford is a rather obnoxious reporter (a standard cliché of the day) who is assigned to Chinatown due to some suspicious murders. At the heart of it all is Mr. Wong--but exactly WHO Wong is no one seems to know. Considering the film stars Lugosi, it doesn't exactly take a rocket scientist to figure it probably is him!! However, who thought that a Hungarian with a heavy accent would make a good Chinese-American?! And who would have thought that Lugosi actually looked and sounded MORE Chinese than his motley group of henchmen. They all sported Chinese-style clothes but looked about as Chinese as Mae West!! The film does have some killing and tossing of knives and even some bamboo shoots being inserted under the nails. Yet, because the acting is so flat, the script so limp that even these crazy story elements can't breathe life into this soggy biscuit. Perhaps the movie would have been better if Lugosi had actually played twins--then maybe two Wongs could have gotten it right! I should be ashamed of myself.<br /><br />A final note--The DVD version of this film I saw was from Passport Video and was of very dubious quality (it came in "The Bela Lugosi Box"). This company specializes in releasing public domain films and consistently does nothing to clean up the prints. This one was almost unwatchable due to terrible sound and no captioning. Also, Passport imprints their logo at the bottom right corner of the screen--which seems like a lot of nerve considering they didn't pay for the film!! Public domain AND emblazoning their name across it like they made the film?! Gimme a break. See if you can find a different and cleaner version.