Finding Home is an execrable film laden with not-so-subtle anti-abortion sentiment. (Even a secondary character who finds herself pregnant after a brief fling with the film's villain opts to "keep her baby.") It also should be noted that viewers allergic to Christian propaganda should avoid this one at all costs. (Who knew that there were no gay men or lesbian women in NYC? Who knew that high-powered career people never utter a single obscenity? Who knew that an emancipated woman of the world would utter a statement like "You just wanted to jump me"? Or that the US of A is such a squeaky-clean, shiny place?) Please allow me to enumerate the ways in which this film almost (but, alas, not quite) enters the annals of being "so bad it's good." First, the lead gives a truly amateurish performance. She signifies all emotions with a furrowed brow and widened eyes a'la Bambi, and her voice is thin and grating. Second, the script is idiotic. I particularly loved the villain's dash toward the sea (?) and his ultimate comeuppance. (He moves to Hollywood where, as the heroine sanctimoniously notes, someone possessing his dubious sense of morality will succeed. Um, wasn't she a purportedly hard-boiled career gal in NYC? Pot, kettle?) The revelation that the hero is independently wealthy (evidently, at the age of 12, he invested in Microsoft stock) also warrants a few good guffaws. Do I need to mention that the hero also is soulful and artistic (he sculpts!) and single and physically fit and (Another funny bit: In homage to Lionel Richie's Hello, the hero's work in progress turns out to be a most unflattering sculpture of the heroine.) Third, Finding Home is laden with Christian "subtext" (note: quotation marks). The heroine marries the hero and, approximately 10 months later, gives birth. (Premarital sex is bad! Giving birth out of wedlock is evil. Not getting pregnant is even worse!) The climax reveals a blonde moppet grabbing a cookie from an immaculate kitchen. Obviously, the heroine has abandoned her empty existence as a career woman, and opted for the infinitely more satisfying role of hausfrau. (Remember kids: women should stay at home!) The hero does odd-jobs, whereas the heroine worked in NYC (curiously, we never find out what she does). Yet, she needs HIM to help her run the inn she inherited from granny. "What can I do? Help me. Help me!" The only names in the cast (Bujold and Fletcher) are wasted. Is it that difficult for more mature actresses to land decent vehicles? If Finding Home represents the best that Christian cinema has to offer, then I'm grateful to be an atheist.