There is a total of one roach that ever shows up in this movie. The only scene involving a real roach is gross. The rest of this movie relies strictly on really awful gray computer graphics animated bugs. The CGI is so bad that when the bugs attack one guy in particular it looks like a gray liquid is covering him. These CGI roaches move in perfect synchronicity, and they are dark gray. Most roaches are some shade of brown. The acting is horrible too. Most of this movie has no bugs at all because it is really a Police Procedural movie with bugs. A Detective is trying to solve a homicide, and the brother of the victim of another homicide runs into the Police Detective and they decide to work together!? So most of the movie follows the typical Police Investigation format, and about every 30-45 minutes someone gets killed by the dark gray liquid which is supposed to be roaches. The big mystery regarding the bugs is solved. There is supposedly an incredible technology which is discovered to allow the control of roaches, but the two bad guys who control the roaches never show any control device or other gadget. They do not even talk to the bugs. Apparently, the bugs work on ESP. No control device is ever shown, though many references are made to the incredible amounts of technology which the student-bad-guys are using. Consider this: At one point the hero is swatting thousands of roaches with his jacket. A few seconds later, he puts the same jacket on without even looking to make sure there are no bugs on it. Characters regularly have spontaneous discussions while standing on the floor on top of thousands of man-eating bugs. By contrast, other characters are engulfed and eaten in seconds by the same bugs. It seems that sometimes the bugs run at super-speed to eat some people, but other times the dark-gray "bugs" just mill about or "walk-in-place." The very end features a very silly CGI as all the roaches stick together to form a giant roach. Of course, the Police woman shoots her gun at the dark-gray blob and nothing happens. The giant roach is killed off in another scene that was ripped off from the Terminator. There are several other scenes that were ripped off from other movies. THEY CRAWL lacks any suspense or horror.