If there is one thing in this world of media that infuriates me, it is an iconic company's attempts to do something incredibly stupid. For one example are Disney's attempts to abandon hand drawn animation, and shove CGI animated movies in the Disney canon and consider them "Full Length Animated Features". What's worse is it starts with one cataclysmic abomination entitled Chicken Little. As we know about the original Aesop fable, this movie contraries from it and contains an abusive amount of clichés, pop culture references, movie references, and so much more clustered together. I can't stop thinking that this is the textbook definition of "worst movie ever". Compared to other poor movies out there, such as Batman & Robin, Battlefield Earth, or North, they are Gods.<br /><br />We're first jumped into a chaotic scene, that BEGS me to laugh with an Indiana Jones joke and a chain of baby rabbits, when Chicken rings a bell in an Oakland town to warn everyone that the sky is falling in such a panic, later revealed that an acorn fell on him. Yeah, that's our hero, ladies and gentlemen; someone who chaotically grabs people's attention just for the most far fetched warning. A year passes by, and he's the village idiot, and a movie of him is in production. Gee who would think that? He's teased in school for his idiocy and is friends with the most horribly named characters with the worst traits in the world. Abby, also named Ugly Duckling who gives advice to Chicken and establishes nothing except for a weak love antique. Fish out of the Water, a fish with a water helmet on his head, who only performs pop culture references. And Runt of the Litter, who's an obnoxious ugly fat big that flaps its arms around so much, and doesn't do a single thing useful in the movie. My question is, what the hell names are these?? Fish out of the Water? Runt of the Litter?? Who comes up with these names? Were these writers even trying? And if anything, you could remove all these characters, and nothing in the story would alter! <br /><br />The entire first half is a rapid fire of high school clichés and a montage to a baseball game for Chicken's reputation to regain. You know, something you'd see on a TV sitcom. This is all utterly pointless because in the second half, the alien plot is in and Chicken loses his reputation again. At this point, why did I have to watch the first half of clichés and sport montages when he becomes the village idiot again? So aliens, reminiscent of War of the Worlds, invade as chaos is aroused again. Citizens are getting vaporized by Martian beams. You know. For kids! There's jettisoned little three eyed orange alien has to be returned to stop this whole mess. He gets returned, but the martians are actually friendly space neighbors. OK, at this point, why did they attack the city in the first place if they're generous? So now that Chicken's reputation is back the second time, his movie is changed to a Sci-fi Trek flick. What did we learn from all this? Practically nothing! <br /><br />The story is messy, and absolutely frustrating to understand. What was the movie telling me, or at least trying? The tag line implies "The sky is Falling". So was it supposed to be about aliens? If so, why was everything else there? Why a baseball game? Was it telling me not to jump to conclusions, or actually listen to someone say something far fetched, despite of no evidence revealed until later in the film? If you asked me, nothing happened! The movie was telling me nothing! <br /><br />While most Disney films contained amazing scores, this musical soundtrack features nothing but decade old songs from groups like Spice Girls. Something in which would amplify the anonymous pop cultural references in the movie. The animation is mediocre, and the character designs are terrible. For the most part, it looks like stop motion, and Foxy Loxy looks like a squirrel. The biggest shame is that some big stars like Zack Braff, Patrick Stewart and Don Knotts have taken roles in this film, and is directed by Mark Dindal, who's known for Cats Don't Dance, and the Emperor's New Groove. Both of which are fantastic films. Some people used these stars as a defense to the film, but really, it doesn't matter who the creators are. What matters is if the movies's good or not. You'll might as well state that Howard the Duck, produced by George Lucas, was great. That would sound ridiculous.<br /><br />Chicken Little is unbelievably retarded. The story talks about nothing with no sense of originality, the characters are annoying and useless, the animation is poor, and it brings a weak soundtrack. I can't say anything good about this hunk of garbage. Chicken Little is a disgrace to the Disney Canon, and a definition of a CGI used wrongly as well as it's an example of modern cinema crap fest. The biggest blame goes to Disney CEO, Michael Eisner, for assuming that 2D animation is dead. Good for him, maybe he should have thought twice about that before firing the Disney animators in the process, considering there are hand drawn Disney sequels, and Studio Ghibli films they distribute.<br /><br />Chicken Little is an inexcusable, unoriginal, effortless abomination, and it's completely unforgivable. One of, actually THE worst movie I have ever seen in my life.