What the hell were they thinking when they made the awfully thoughtless decision to air this tripe? Almost, if not all the video clips are completely one-sided with an over-hyped, sensationalist narration! Many of the victims are complete dumb-asses who don't have the commons sense to put one pants leg on at a time and the narrator would have you and 75% of the audience (who are no more intelligent than the mindless chimpanzees feature on said reality clip show) believe that these are intelligent people who are victims. Victims? Yeah! Victims of their own stupidity and ignorance!!! These shows are for galactically stupid and the incredibly gullible. Why? Again said narrator would convince you that all these incidents are happening now. How do I know this? Well, the opening line is a dead giveaway! "The world is a dangerous place! Danger is lurking around every corner!" "WHAT THE F*$K?!" Oh that's very entertaining. It's bad enough that local and national news networks scare the sh@# out of us on a daily basis. This show has an agenda. That agenda is from the unholiest of places: A white, wealthy conservative male or Middle American housewife point of view. <br /><br />You notice almost all the robbers are minorities(preferably violent young black men in ski masks)and all the young people are drunk college jock idiots compulsively on the rampage downtown and are COMING TO GET YOU!!!! The streets are crawling with violent police chases occurring outside your front door and that drunk drivers are again COMING TO GET YOU!!!<br /><br />Yeah right! "Before you stock up on semi-automatic rifles, put minorities, homeless people, drug addicts, and immigrants into concetration camps, home-school your children, invest in a "panic room" and sign up for the John Birch Society, let me give you moronic fans of George W. Bush, elitist and souless gated communities, socio-economic segregation, deforestation, neofascistic AM-Radio psycho-pundit banter and of this show a friendly bit of advice: "These shows are often never updated. The majority of the clips are over five to seven years old if not older. They are NOT happening now! All right. Not all teenagers and minorities are criminal lunatics attacking everyone from behind the bushes.<br /><br />Danger is NOT around every turn as these are rare occurrences! This isn't the world outside!!You are more likely to be stuck in traffic or divorced from your spouse then go through what these cheese balls are going through! It also has another agenda for the blue collar Archie Bunker and fat-ass delusional shut-in set: "Turn off the damn TV! get a job, and join humanity. Along with its reality show brethren, these shows should be cancelled...PERMENANTLY!! Get it!! Why? It condones obesity! They use scare tactics and sound bites people to believe that all minorities and teenagers are punks and criminal bastards and to be scared of every person around you!!! That way the viewing audience is terrified of venturing outdoors and will never do so...EVER!!! Except to spend a lot of green at big-box stores like Wal-Mart to get their Plasma screens, a two ton boxes of cookies, and DVD's of horribly acted movies. Thus, the only option is EAT and rot in front of the idiot box. At least that's my theory. <br /><br />In conclusion, don't ever waste your time viewing this junk! This isn't COPS, COPS makes it work, as it tells the risks that go along with being a police officer! This...er..um.. does not. It'll make you paranoid and thinking the world is about to collapse. These shows are elitist, racist, and viciously one-sided with fear-triggered pro-consumption propaganda! People's misery is not and never, ever should be considered entertainment unless you are... RETARDED!!!