This movie was a total surprise and a lot more entertaining than expected. There were a lot of quiet or dead moments, but those seemed to work out, not only for use as a scene change, but to convey just how bleak, when you really sit down and think about it, most people's lives are. The plot centers around a widowed grandmother, and her son and daughter-in-law, and their plight to get medical help for the grandson/son, though we are never told just what he has, and for most of the scenes we see him in, he looks okay really. I would have liked a little background of his ailment and why he had to go to Australia in order to get treatment. Both families have borrowed as much as they can against what they own and are told that the treatment will be free, as it's something new, but the family must pay their own way there and for their stay. Of course none have any money and all have been turned down for more loans. So Maggie, the grandmother, and played quite well by Marianne Faithful, goes out looking for a job, but she's a 50-year-old widow with no skills. She happens across an ad in the window for a hostess at a sex club, and like most naive people, thinks all she will have to do is bring tea to the customers and clean off tables. The scene where she's thinking this is what she will have to do and then told exactly what it is she will do is done perfectly, and the look on her face is awesome as she comes to realize just what a hostess actually does. Of course, she declines. But then there's that dying grandson hanging over her head, so she chooses to do something that repulses her in order to help out to save her grandson. So the premise, IMO, is just how far would one go to save a loved one? And it's not like she was having actual sex. All she was doing was giving hand jobs, and through a hole in the wall to boot. What was really funny was once she got into the job, and she took her job seriously since this is what an honest person would do, regardless of the job, not to mention she was really good at it, and thus she began to make her workplace more homey. Don't we all do this? We put up pictures of loved ones, flowers, personal items, etc. And there is one particular scene where she is at work and like a lot of us, multi-tasking. I won't give that one away. It was so funny we had to stop the DVD and rewind to watch it again. Yes, there were problems. What movie does not? Some of the issues discussed are the acting talents, or lack thereof, of certain cast members, and some were kind of dry and others overdone, but overall, the entire cast was right on the money. Even her so-called friends and their reactions when they found out what she was doing. One woman was actually quite interested while the others feigned repulsion. This is one of those sleeper movies to rent and just sit back and enjoy the ride.