I believe the only reason this film was being released was to build up hype for the new Street Fighter IV video game...which gives me little hope that the new Tekken film will be anything close to good. This movie was one of those movies that you watch for about 10 minutes and you're thinking, are they serious??? The acting is horrible, plot is stupid and when you look at the cast before you even see the movie you already know its going to be a bad movie. To name a few, Kristen Kreuk as Chun Li: OK she wasn't that bad in the movie but as a fan of the game, when I think Chun Li I definitely don't think Lana from Smallville. Taboo as Vega: OK I don't know what the hell they were thinking when they mad this casting role because this itself screams box office flop. Chris Klein as Charlie Nash: definitely without a doubt the worst actor in the entire movie. Every time he tried to turn his tough guy attitude on it was way more awkward than intimidating. Robin Shou as Gen: Robin Shou obviously can't say no to any action movie he is offered. Mortal Kombat was enough Robin, stop ruining other classic fighting games turned into movies. And finally Neal McDonough as M. Bison: let me repeat that Neal McDonough as M. Bison???? WHAT?!?!? Neal is nowhere near anything close to resembling Bison's look or attitude. <br /><br />Did not criticize Michael Clarke Duncan as Balrog because I am a fan of his, but the character in my opinion was pointless in this movie. And the only reason I gave this movie a 2 and not a 1 out of 10 is because of Moon Bloodgood. She is such a stunning and beautiful actress and without her appearance on screen, I would have had no recollection of this movie whatsoever after I watched it. She is such an underrated actress and needs to be put out there in way better roles than this piece of crap.<br /><br />There were many instances in this film that had me go what the hell was that? (For example the spinning bird kick was one of the most awkward things in the movie) and all the acting was beyond laughable. And to put the icing on the cake, the ending where Gen goes, "There's a fighter in Japan. Ryu......something" was the biggest shame this movie could possibly put on a classic video game series. Don't waste your time watching the movie, instead play the video game and you'll get way more joy out of that.