I bought this movie at a sale, curious and unaware of its potential, the stars or story. This afternoon I had two hours off work, and thought I would relax in the sun and watch it. What a surprise.<br /><br />It starts with the photos of body parts, which are a little ambiguous, thighs, elbows, curves etc, and I thought, looks interesting. Well it stopped being interesting right there - I should have mowed the lawns! Silly innocuous girl, she kept saying she was nearly 21 but acted around 14, had her head in a bottle - presumably spent the last 4 years at college learning to hold her liquour - at her sister's wedding, in a rather odd bridesmaid's dress, met the man she was to spend the rest of the movie with. I have nothing against age gaps in relationship, although reality has taught me that sooner or later one of you is saggy and baggy and the other gets disillusioned. This guy, this Connie, with a woman's name, had a line as hackneyed and a style as old as the hills. Silly little girl has crush. Where he should have backed off from one who was so self-absorbed and totally boring, he didn't and we all suffered for it. The high spot for me was when she suggested that she look for a flat of her own a few months down the line and he had a tantrum and got well and truly hammered. The good looking older guy with the other blonde in the café looked fine - our girl should have moved in on his party. It just went from bad to worse, giving the Irish, the wedding photographic fraternity and blondes a bad name. Really it was dire. Question - in the scene where she finally walks away, why did she walk through a large puddle? Was that to show us how young and immature she really was? Too late - we knew. Question - don't really wealthy families do 21st birthday parties anymore? So that she got a take away, a Chinese fortune cookie and back into the arms of Mr irresistible. It was all too shallow, as though nobody really wanted to get too heavy. Pity really, it could not have made it any worse.