You know, I look at stupid people and I think, "I could never be them... not after experimenting with a massive amount of mind-altering drugs over a long period of time." But after seeing this movie, I was stupid... at least during the drive home.<br /><br />You know, I could probably come up with a better idea than a floating watermelon with a piece of talking watermelon inside, i.e. The Creator, who has a half man, half drum set person who sings "The Song of Life" every time the talking piece of watermelon wants to bring something back to life, but then again I'm not completely and pointlessly insane. I hope this whole movie was a joke and the real one is somewhere out there waiting for me, the disappointed, scratch that, p-ed off viewer, to watch.<br /><br />I went into this movie not with any high expectations. I didn't leave feeling disappointed because I wasn't expecting very much. I knew it was going to be crazy and weird and pretty much just insane, which is what I like about the show. But when it's stretched out over an almost 90 minute time period it feels like a 5 year old child with A.D.D. screaming for attention, which is an annoying thing. 15 minutes, I can take that. But 90... no. That is probably what made me think the show was so great, it was 15 minutes of tolerable insanity, short and sweet. But this is just too, too much. Actually, before I went in, I thought wouldn't it be a great idea to smoke pot and then watch it? You know what, it probably would've been, but I'm not retarded. Even though I didn't smoke pot, I still felt like I did about half-way through the blathering non-existent plot, stop and notice the insanity and ask yourself what's going on as you see two people leaving the theater movie.<br /><br />So the point is: smoke pot. It makes Aqua Teen Hunger Force Colon Movie Film for Theaters tolerable. Or just watch the show. Or better yet, go home and masturbate to a picture of yourself. Or feed starving children. Either way... don't wind up like me: p-ed off, wishing for his 90 minutes back, spending an additional 20 minutes writing a review about just how p-ed off you are and then posting it for everyone to see and having the people who weren't p-ed off at the movie, in turn, p-ed off at you.