The Driller Killer is a movie whose reputation precedes it. Those who have never seen it expect a shocking gore-fest. Those that have seen it know differently. This film was a prominent member of the notorious Video Nasty list from early 80's Britain. However, the film attained it's nasty status primarily because of the graphic cover of a hobo being drilled in the head and also because it had a catchy and memorable title which the British tabloids could bandy about whenever they produced an article about the dangers that this new breed of violent films posed to civilisation as we then knew it. The actual content of the movie, on the other hand, is another matter entirely. This is not a blood-drenched atrocity. The violence is minimal, if on one occasion strong. It is mainly a portrait of a painter being driven mad by his surroundings. Secondly, it is an interesting historical snapshot of the late 70's New York punk scene and the grimy streets of the city at that time. One of the main problems of the movie is that the people who think they will like it, generally won't, while those that might enjoy it probably would never pick it up in the first place. The Driller Killer is a movie that does not play to expectations.<br /><br />On a technical level it is very raw. This in itself is not a major problem as the setting is so scuzzy that the film benefits from the DIY punk rock attitude in terms of look and sound. The acting too, is primitive but, again, doesn't seem entirely out of place. But these limitations, along with the threadbare narrative, do make the experience of watching The Driller Killer one that you may not want to repeat very quickly. The mix of exploitation and art-house on a low budget is certainly interesting but ultimately a bit aimless.<br /><br />If you are a fan of exploitation cinema then certainly check this movie out but please be aware of what this film is not - it isn't a mindless slasher or serial killer gore-fest. It is a hybrid of grind-house cinema, punk rock and urban alienation. Filmed by a maverick director/performer. It will disappoint many but reward a few.