It's taken four or five films, but it seems like Hollywood has run of out occupations for Will Ferrell to have while he acts like a man child. From anchorman to NASCAR driver and some other sports, the apparent remedy of this problem comes in Step Brothers: make him a jobless man child. Oh, and have two of him this time and get John C. Reilly to play the other. That's the basic set up for this, Ferrell's third collaboration with "Anchorman" and "Talladega Nights" director Adam McKay, a tired, annoying, and sometimes cringe inducing display of the same shtick you've seen many times before.<br /><br />The movie follows Dale (Reilly) and Brennan (Ferrell), two single, unemployable 40 year old losers who still live at home with their single parents (played by Mary Steenburgen and Richard Jenkins, two very good actors that don't have much to work with). When said parents hook up and eventually marry, the two find themselves under the same roof and an hour and a half of them screaming and getting hurt ensue. The two despise each other at first, but eventually become friends, especially when their parents grow tired of their immaturity and force them to try and get jobs. This sets the stage for what essentially boils down to a series of sketches. One supposedly funny situation after the next that the boys find themselves in, barely connecting to form a plot at all, let alone something overly funny. Set pieces include Brennan's diabolically cruel younger brother, his crazy wife who finds herself infatuated with Dale, a street brawl with some grade school children, and a rap video (groan). Like previous McKay outings, this movie is a gag a minute, throwing out a lot of things, most of them missing the mark.<br /><br />To deride the humor as stupid is incredibly pointless. That's what one is expecting with movies like these, and even people who loved this movie would freely admit that it's stupid. The "stupid" factor of the humor isn't even my major problem with it. I've enjoyed movies like Anchorman and the indefensible Kung Pow: Enter the Fist, but there has to be some kind of wacky and over the top charm to a film's stupidity in order for me to be on board. Not only are Dale and Brennan un-charming, they're barely even likable, and even a little creepy. Seeing these men scream obscenities, beat the crap out of each other, act like children and destroy the lives of those around them wears thin very quickly without any charm acting as support. The film also suffers from a degree of unoriginality, nothing is recycled directly from the previous McKay movies, but I couldn't shake off the feeling that I've seen this all before, or that McKay and Ferrell weren't even really trying anymore.<br /><br />Ferrell and Reilly are gifted actors, and have proved in past films that they can be funny, but they have nothing to do here but repeat the same joke over and over again. Dale and Brennan are moronic man sized children, look at how stupid and childish they act, etc. etc. I'd be liar if I said the film was devoid of any laughs, because it does deliver some, but they just feel cheap, coming solely from Ferrell or Reilly's tone of voice or facial expressions, and not from good writing. You also get the feeling that, if nothing else, the actors are having a good time, which keeps the film from being something truly terrible. I'm also a sucker for randomness, and it succeeded at making me crack a smile a few times because of it. But the majority of the jokes just don't work; coming off as McKay trying to be as immature and senseless as possible (think Ferrell rubbing his balls on a drum kit is funny? Then you're in luck).<br /><br />The supporting characters don't help much either, most acting as one note and unlikable as the step brothers themselves. Brennan's brother and his wife try to be so frantically funny you feel like patting them on the back and saying "You came on a little strong". Steenburgen and Jenkins try their best, but as mentioned, they simply have zero material to work with, forced to simply act as straight-men to Dale and Brennan's idiocy. Until, of course, the movie finally decides to have some sort of conflict and makes the parents fed up with them, eventually resolving in conclusion just as asinine as the rest of the film. By that point I couldn't have cared about the characters any less.<br /><br />The film is bad, but not terrible. It's far too uninspired to get that strong of a reaction from me. It is simply McKay and Ferrell reusing their tried and tested formula once again, and failing completely in an attempt to capture any real sense of comedy or fun. If you loved the other movies made in this vein, then you'll surely like this too. If you find yourself tiring of Ferrell with each release, then save yourself some time and skip it, because "Step Brothers" will probably be the film that'll break the camel's back. Then fart on it or something.