I'm not inundating MW is a cross dresser, if I would use his marginalization of the finer nuances. "Casus belly" There is a huge difference by saying "I hate America" or "I hate how America is acting under George Bush" If I would have been MW's English teacher catching him misusing this phrase, he would not have passed the dictionary lesson. Selling himself as the naive "little farm boy" from Minesota doing a Mocumentary on MM, exploiting his weaknesses and elevating MM to a Media Goliath, doesn't make MW a David. He might convince the blissfully ignorant and uneducated , but an increasing silent majority know's who the real Media Goliath is: The Media run by Corporations, reflecting the advertisers opinion. Now this Media could have done a Rebuttle Documentary on MM's Mocumentaries, but they know it wouldn't look sexy, if they would use sleek corporate Media Spinmasters to run it. So they might have sponsored MM, threw in a cheap Comedian team : Pen & Teller (Rush Limbough was probably too expansive)and some other cheerleaders to make it run. Also trying to move MM into a leftist corner, calling him a communist sympathizer, makes me believe MW doesn't know real Communist Agitators like John Hartfield, Eduard Schnitzler, Ernst Bush, Hans Eisler and Wladimir Mayakowski. Clearly, the Neoncon Movement wants to destroy Middle-class America. All they want is slave labor for their shopping temples like Wallmart, and Massfeeding institutions like MacDonalds. Small Business people are just a nuisance for them. Obviously they are succeeding, by using the Media to sell us lies, lies like "Michael Moore hates America" Joseph Goebbles the Propaganda Minister of Germany during the Third Reich quoted: If you tell a Lie, and say it is the truth....Repeat it often enough and it becomes the truth. May be the American people are bound to believe now one of MW's quotes: Canada's Crime rate is twice as high, as the US's. I would like to know his source of statistics, lol. Given the fact that our Canadian population is 10% of the US population, I'm left in disbelieve, that my chance's are twice as high to become a victim of a mugging, shooting, robbery, fraud or whatever in a City let's say Toronto, after I had to fend for my life in Atlanta, where I got lost in city traffic: I had to evade carbage on the streets and duck behind my Cabriolet Steering wheel evading an angry mob throwing objects. Buffula looked pretty grim to me, after I traveled through there. Burned out buildings after an alleged Gangwar. I just don't buy MM's statistics. Left alone now the white collar crime, that ripped of Middle Class Stock Investors, where the corporations loaned money to Deadbeats to make statistics look better and to raise their profits. They also knew when to hit the breaks, and take their money out in time first: Insider Information. Does Enron rung a bell here ? Hey Mike Wilson : "Where is my Money?" Yes, I lost money after the Morgage and Loan scandal too. Oh, I also like to take MW's challenge on playing Hockey in the vicinity of the Capitol ! He said: "That's only possible in the US " I bet a travel ticket , that You and I can play Hockey at the Parliament in Ottawa, at the Elysee in Paris, at Reichstag in Berlin at the Duma in Warzaw and on the Kremlin's Red square. I don't know about Bejing, haven't been there yet. Travelling wouldn't hurt, may be it would supply you with a better education, Buddy !