How to Deal tries to take on so many problems but in the end it fails to accomplish much of anything. Everything in Halley's life is turning upside down. All these problems are happening to her and its effecting her life. Her parents got divorce, her sister is marrying the wrong guy, her best friend's boyfriend died and plus her best friend is pregnant. Halley will just need to learn how to deal with these problems and other problems as life is always tough and it doesn't always work out the way you want it too. The plot sounds like it has some potential but the execution isn't very good. The film's biggest problem is trying to have all these problems. I think if it wanted to squeeze in all of this then they should have made it into a sitcom. However, they are trying to fit in all these problems in a 101 minute movie and the results weren't pretty as the film is kind of mess in that aspect. The script was weak and clichéd so that didn't help matters either. There was really nothing original about this movie either as you have probably seen it done before and better. The acting was average at best with the best being Allison Janney. She did a pretty good job but she is far above this material. Mandy Moore did a decent job but I really think she should stick to singing. Trent Ford plays Halley's love interest and he does an okay job. He wasn't very good during the serious scenes though. The rest of the cast isn't really worth mentioning either they did an awful job but haven't really been in a lot of films. Or, they just have better work out there and this is probably something that should be left off their resumes. Clare Kilner did a poor job of directing since it was kind of hard to see what was the real story. She also directed the completely bland Wedding Date. The movie also gets pretty dull and I didn't really feel for any of these characters. I felt bad for the Halley's friend since her boyfriend died and she got pregnant but pretty much just her. In the end, this is just another generic chick flick that isn't anything special and its better if you just skip it. Rating 4/10