This indy "drama" is completely and utterly awful! Just because you are gay and watching a film about gay men and/or women does not mean you have to abide by some unwritten rule forcing you to say that it's good. I watch a load of independent movies, many with budgets much lower than this film had, and I have yet to see such a badly written, badly directed, badly made and woefully badly acted dud as this. The film is as unfocused as it is unbelievable and veers off on side plots that contribute nothing to the main storyline.<br /><br />And Justin Herwick is a good actor in the lead role? Please don't make me laugh. Are you friends of his or something? His emotions do not change a single time throughout the entire film and he mumbles his way through all of his dialogue as if he could care less. I've never seen such an inept and lazy performance in my entire life and it's one of the main things that completely ruin this film. It's as if the actor thought he could cruise on his looks alone. Sad thing is, he isn't all that in the first place and you have NO clue why everyone in this movie is in love with him. He's not very bright, average looking, self-absorbed, incredibly boring and slutty; your typically dumb airhead club kid type. Yet everyone in this movie is falling all over him as if he's either a drop dead gorgeous and/or fascinating person. Please!<br /><br />But of course there's a heavy-handed moral to the story after most of the running time has been used up basically showing a bunch of guys parading around naked, useless subplots that exist basically to show even more nudity and people spitting out laughably angsty dialogue (a part where one character compares love to 9 miles of intestines in the human body is about the worst attempt at "deep" dialogue I've ever heard). The horribly conceived "it's time to grow up" moment in question though is when Sam (Shane Powers), a friend of Jacksons, kills himself because he's also secretly in love with him! I guess at this moment, almost at the very end of the movie, we're suddenly supposed to sympathize with Jackson. Too bad you'd already spent an hour wishing Jackson would get run over with a bus and that the Sam character is so poorly underwritten you know almost nothing about him.<br /><br />1/10 (I'd give it a 0 if I could)