Don't expect Disney out of this 1987 live-action version of the Grimm Brothers' vintage fairy tale. Diana Rigg of the television show "The Avengers" delivers the only worthwhile performance and nobody else stands out in this lackluster but more accurate rendition of the classic yarn. The action starts with the Prince discovering the glass coffin with Snow White in it. Afterward, we learn that the mother of our heroine died after she gave birth and the dad married the Evil Queen. The Evil Queen wants to destroy Snow White because her mirror reminds her that she is the fairest of the fair and the Queen refuses to be upstaged. She orders a huntsman to take the young beauty into the woods and kill her. The Evil Queen demands that the Huntsman brings back the heart of the heroine so she can keep it in a box. Alas, the poor fellow does not have the nerve to do such a dastardly deed. Anyway, Snow White flees and winds up at the house of the seven dwarfs and becomes their housekeeper. She cooks their meals and keeps their home clean. Years pass and the Evil Queen learns from her mirror that the damsel has survived so she sets out to kill her by herself. Initially, she laces a bodice on Snow White and our heroine passes out and the Queen leaves. The dwarfs cut the bodice off and Snow White recovers. The Queen masquerades the second time as an Asian woman and gives Snow White a deadly comb. Again, the dwarfs saw the day. By now the dwarfs have warned the witless Snow White to not open the door and let anybody into their house. Finally, the Queen tries again and gives Snow White a poison apple. No, Snow White does not open the door but the Queen manages to get the apple to her and our heroine winds up unconscious on the floor again. Sarah Patterson of "The Company of Wolves" is pretty but she doesn't do much other than look pretty. Billy Barty, who parlayed his short stature into a film career, plays one of the dwarfs. Eventually, the Queen learns that Snow White survived the apple and is about to be married to a prince in an adjacent kingdom. The Queen shatters her own mirror and sets off to attend the wedding, not knowing that as each shard of the mirror falls to the ground that she grows even older and more ugly. Again, Diana Rigg is the only reason to watch writer& director Michael Berz's version of this story