A group of Russian soldiers discover the tomb of the Dracula family, and one of them foolishly removes the stake from the body of Dracula's dog Zoltan, and in which the dog raises Dracula's servant/original owner too. Needing to find the last of their master's bloodline, they end up travelling to California to discover their descendant Michael Drake and his family are going on holidays in the woods. Wanting to convert him they follow the family there, and transform dogs in the area into vampires to get the task done, but Inspector Branco has arrived to inform Michael about his problems.<br /><br />How about that! Fun assured? Well not of the intentional kind or even camp, but this trashy and completely static b-flick makes for a lightweight and brainless distraction. You got a meaningful flashback from Zoltan, Dracula's dog, so we could see what a lovely dog he was before being bitten by Dracula. Yeah that's a sight to see. Actually there's quite a bit of Zoltan biting dogs and the unexpected traveller, so don't be looking for the any bathing beauties to be bitten on the neck. When we cop a grin from the dogs there are nice dental work on show, oh and the glowing eyes of pure evil was a super touch. Terrifying! I'm sure you'll think this sounds whacked! But no there's far more to share. You like puppies? Cute puppies? How about Dracula puppies? Yeah dog lovers beware. The dog's master (amusedly played by Reggie Nalder) looks likes a stunned mullet as he communicates telepathically with his mean looking mutt Zoltan, and this is quite rib tickling. This is just the cream of the crop too. A junky, and quite limited production (which is directed by Full Moon founder Albert Brand) comes across being rather grizzled and glum. The inventive concept, which is dreamt up by Frank Ray Perilli, is quite an unusual one, but it can't seem to sustain the idea and it soon becomes terribly old. There isn't enough to hang a story off it and too many holes open up. The stiff script and stuffy performances ( Michael Pataki really does grate away) added to unwanted crinkles too. Jose Ferrer doesn't seem to be putting a whole lot into his haggard performance, however he still comes off reasonably well. The dogs are the ones who out-perform their fellow co-stars. Brand might seem like his on cruise control, but he does construct some atmospheric moments within the brooding woodlands, and there are one or two intense build-ups. However most of it is downright silly to be effective, like the dog attacks involving obvious puppet work. The make-up effects are minimal and basic, and Stan Winston was part of the FX team. The photography is colourless and the hovering score hits all the generic notes with a blunt sounding synthesizer.<br /><br />Watchable, but a long way from good.