This movie is awful. It has only a few redeeming qualities, and they don't include Rodman. The man can't act worth a damn. PLEASE, HOLLYWOOD DON'T HAND ANY MORE SCRIPTS TO THIS MAN! Throughout the whole movie Rodman tries to be cool, but fails miserably. Is it me or did anyone notice that most of the people in this movie couldn't act. I could of done a better job and I've only taken one acting class.<br /><br />Minor Spoilers: On the bright side, the 2 monks did help move the movie along. But at times their jokes began to wear thin. In addition, I liked the chick who was working against Rodman at the beginning but soon joined on his side. She spent half of the movie kicking Rodman's a** everytime she met up with him; that was enough for me to sit through this pitful excuse of a movie. Besides beating the crap out of Rodman, she did have some nice fight scenes with other characters in the movie (especially when she was fighting against Rodman and the bodygaurd to the villain in the movie). Another character that made this movie slighlty better was the boyfriend of the kidnapped girl. Sure, he looked like a pretty boy but he had some okay fight scenes. I kind of liked the bodyguard too. I gave him points for kicking Rodman's a**.<br /><br />The bad side to this movie is Rodman, of course, and the sidekick. What was the point of that guy? All he did throughout the whole movie was make lamb jokes and act stupid. I was glad when Rodman's enemy/girldfriend, in the movie, kicked him in the face and shut him up. In addition, the villain in this movie was lamb. Villains are suppose to be smart, charming, and kind of likeable. The villian in this turd was awful. Everytime he came on the screen I got a headache. The special effects were awful. The scene where Rodman rides his bike on the wall of a tunnel was so fake it wasn't funny. Also, the fight scene with the overweight monk was weak. A couple of times during the fight I could tell it was a thin guy padded down to look overweight.<br /><br />This movie would have been decent if Rodman wasn't in it, if the CGI was better, if it didn't try so hard to be funny, and if it had focused on 3 of the characters in the movie (Rodman's enemy/love interest, the bodyguard, and pretty boy). The two guys who played the monks I have seen in other movies 10 times better than this. Hell, the Snoop Dog video that Taa-Dow (the black monk) was in looks like Oscar winning fare next to this dog. I give this movie a 3.5/10. Next time I will go rent a movie or read a book, when there's nothing on television.