SHE LOOKS JUST LIKE THE DEAD GIRL, YOUR THE SICK ONE-- has got to be the funniest line that was not intended to be funny in the whole movie- I laughed, along with the rest of the theater, for about 2 minutes after that-- and then when the Voice Over comes on and its SCARElett's voice repeating it again, I just could not contain my laughter anymore! Go see it just for that alone! The movie is not great at all- it tries to come across as all serious and drama filled but comes off as a bad Saturday Night Live sketch! Apparently, Josh Hartnett thinks all it takes is a furrowed look with his eyebrows to demonstrate any of his emotions. They should have gotten an actor who is older then Josh- he did not fit the bill as a detective-- he looks too much like 2006, then a character from 1940's. The best acting was done my Mia, who played the Black Dahlia-- she gave a great performance in a limited role. Hillary Swank came off as a bad drag queen impersonator while we find out too late why Aaron Eckhardt's character is in such turmoil over the death of the Black Dahlia. When we do find out the truth, we don't care anymore. Too much happens at the end and it was like a student cramming for a midterm 5 minutes before the test begins. So much is thrown at us in the last 5 minutes of the movie- characters, motives, red herrings, misunderstandings, that I needed a score card to keep track of who was with who and who knew what with who. Its a movie you should rent-- only so u can pause and rewind to understand what was thrown at you in the last few minutes of the movie. It was like the director thought the movie was too long so he just threw everything in at once to tie up loose ends, when all it does is create more questions then answers. Scarlette apparently thinks by smoking a long cigarette and pouting she is transformed to the 1940's but in every movie why does she come across as bored and dull. Will the Black Dahila murder be solved, will the good guys prevail, will Josh Hartnett learn to act, will the scenery hold up after Aaron Echardt's chews threw the movie- acting docile one moment, then out of control in the next-- find out when you see the Black Dahlia.... on video of course, after your friend buys it.