<br /><br />Trapped was how I felt while watching the film Entrapment. I couldn't wait for the movie to end. I went through the other reviews and was thoroughly surprised to read that there were many people out there who enjoyed the movie. My thinking is that - what was there to enjoy? The plot was unoriginal, the script lame and the acting absolutely soulless. As far as I was concerned, it could have been two unknowns as the lead actors and the effect would have been the same. It is such a waste that big names like Connery and Zeta-Jones were used for a humdrum movie like this.<br /><br />Much was said about the "chemistry" between the two leads. Romantic, intriguing, charming were some of the words I saw being used to describe the relationship. I beg to differ. I would use more befitting words like contrived, incestuous and downright disgusting. Didn't anyone notice the 40-year age gap between them? Had they kept their relationship purely professional, then the movie would have been slightly more palatable.<br /><br />There were two reasons why I decided to watch the movie. First was the two leads and second, the filming location. Having being disappointed by the former, I was hoping that the latter would have been the saving grace. Being a Malaysian, I was eager to watch how the Petronas Twin Towers, currently the tallest building in the world, would have looked on the big screen. Of course, a sense of pride enveloped me when the first few glimpses of the majestic towers were shown. It is not often that major movie productions come here for filming. Although some scenes were manipulated (like the scene when Connery and Zeta-Jones were on a boat on the Malacca river with the Twin Towers on the background. Malacca and Kuala Lumpur are over 100 km apart!), I couldn't help but feel a sense of fulfillment whenever a familiar setting was shown. Notwithstanding the fact that none of the actors who potrayed Malaysians were actually from Malaysia. Perhaps "Anna and the King" starring Jodie Foster and Chow Yun-Fatt would do justice to talented local actors. This remains to be seen as the movie is still actively shooting here.<br /><br />In conclusion, I feel that unless you're a Malaysian, there's nothing that the movie can offer that's groundbreaking. You'll leave the cinema with a hollow feeling and will find yourself hard-pressed to recall a scene that will make an impact in your movie-going life.