Decidedly adult-oriented slapstick-comedy, though it was originally marketed towards the younger crowds, that has two very different brothers (played by comedians Nathan Lane and Lee Evans) suddenly left broke and homeless directly resulting from a couple of disturbing and rather unfunny circumstances. By what seems like pure luck the bumbling brothers inherit a dilapidated mansion at just the right time from their wealthy industrialist father (played by William Hickey) who has just recently passed away. Apparently the house, as they soon find out, was built by some well-known architect in the mid-nineteenth century ultimately making it very valuable and highly sought-after by a number of collectors. In the process of attempting to clean the place up so as to hold a big auction in it with hopes of selling it to the highest and wealthiest bidder the two men realize (much to their dismay) that the house's oldest resident, a tiny little mouse, is unwilling to give up his much loved abode without a fight! From that basic plot hilarity is supposed to ensue, but for a number of reasons it rarely does! One of the many things that bothered me about this flick and made it hard for me to laugh was the big fact that it was so dark, dank and just way too atmospheric for it's own good. Meaning that the seemingly unnamed time-period and or place that it's set in is far too unpleasant, grimy and gritty for an out-and-out comedy, let alone a kid's film! In fact it kind of reminds me of the sometimes graphic and violent "Delicatessen" and "The City Of Lost Children"...dark and amoral, with a fairy-tale like theme and enormous and meticulous set designs. However, unlike those two films this one was inappropriately aimed towards children via the cartoon-like slapstick comedy reminiscent of the old "Wily Coyote and The Road Runner" and sorry but I gotta say it, "Tom and Jerry" cartoons. Some curious cameos are also featured here from a number of character actors that are passable considering all, though to be honest I'm still scratching my head as to why any of them would have actually made appearances in this flick in the first place; the actors I'm in reference to are: Maury Chakin, Christopher Walkin (!?), the late Michael Jeter, the late William Hickey who passed away shortly after this film wrapped and who's memory it is dedicated to in the end credits, and Vicki Lewis. Overall, "Mousehunt" is not the worst film you could ever see that's for sure. However, in my opinion and this is just my opinion mind you, I don't think that it's really too fit for the kiddies out there frankly. Though, a number of the adult's are likely to get a kick out of this to a degree more or less, but I don't think that many of them will find it to be completely fall-down hilarious by any means. (*1/2 out of *****)