An American special agent (Dick Purcell), accompanied by his assistant and valet ( the continuously wise-cracking Mantan Moreland) and an aviator, sets off in search of a missing U. S. Admiral whose plane has crashed on a Caribbean island during World War II. While searching, the men get lost in a fog and can't make any radio contact, but they do make radio contact with someone friendly speaking a language they don't understand, which appears to be German, a language - of course - widely spoken in the Caribbean. As luck should have it, our heroes' plane also crashes and they are helped by a solicitous German whose wife is even more insane than he is. Afte the crash, with the plane lying there in round' thousand pieces, our heroes walk out unharmed, without so much as a scratch, with their suits in perfect condition.<br /><br />Zombies and voodoo practises form the main background in this forgettable romp of B-movie nonsense by director Jean Yarbrough, who made a slew of B-movie hokum (over 50 films) during the '30s, '40s and early '50s, like THE DEVIL BAT (1940), THE SHE-WOLF OF London (1946), JACK AND THE BEANSTALK(1952), and the more critically acclaimed CRASHING LAS VEGAS (1956)," plus a number of films with Abbot & Costello, like IN SOCIETY (1944) and LOST IN ALSKA (1952). Later in his career, during the '50s and '60s, he directed several episodes of TV-shows like "Navy Log", "Gunsmoke", "Petticoat Junction" and "My Favorite Martian." <br /><br />Sadly, this film hasn't much on offer. It's bad in pretty much every department. On paper, you would think Nazis and zombies would make an entertaining combination, but not in this film. It's short on action most of the time, with plenty of unintentional laughs though. It's certainly not the worst of its kind, and I can imagine it could have a certain appeal to fans of old B-flicks, but most of the film is just incredibly dull. In one scene, we see a confrontation with one of the zombies and all we get is some lame wrestling with a black extra, who is supposedly a zombie, but he has no make-up, is not scary, not funny, just ridiculous. The most amazing thing about this chunk of cheeze is that the music score received an Oscar nomination for "Best Musical Score of a Dramatic Picture."<br /><br />Camera Obscura --- 4/10 (- which is very generous)