The Vengeance of She is a badly done adventure movie with elements of the supernatural. It is a sequel of sorts to She (1965), but the action has been updated to the 1960s. The plot is pretty wacky, though it could have made for an enjoyably ludicrous film if handled with a bit more verve (see The Lost Continent for a film which had an outrageous storyline, but worked OK because the makers had the courage to stand by their own absurdities). Unfortunately, in this case the film doesn't really work at all. The story progresses unconvincingly and humourlessly in a very dull, workmanlike manner, with largely unenthusiastic performances, and dated, jazzy music which doesn't suit the events on screen.<br /><br />A young blonde woman, Carol (Olinka Berova)wanders around the southern part of France, her mind muddled and tormented by recurring dreams. It seems that a strange force is driving her in a particular direction, and only by following this direction can she stop the constant torment. Her dreams are riddled with haunting images of a faraway kingdom, and she repeatedly awakens from these semi-nightmares inexplicably screaming the word "Ayesha". Carol boards a yacht owned by womanising millionaire George (Colin Blakely). One of George's friends, psychiatrist Philip (Edward Judd), is also aboard the yacht enjoying a holiday. Philip is interested by Carol's bizarre condition and tries to help her to make sense of her dreams. Gradually, it becomes clear that her thoughts are being corrupted and manipulated by the denizens of a lost city in North Africa, who are trying to psychically guide her to their land so that she can replace their long-dead Queen of Ayesha (whom she closely resembles).<br /><br />Berova may be a highly beautiful woman but her acting ability is almost nil, so immediately the film is faced with an uphill struggle since her character is so crucial to all that's going on. Judd also is a very bland, laid-back leading man (he resembles Peter O'Toole, but with dark hair and about a tenth of Peter's acting ability). Saddled with these two uninspiring main actors, the film further digs its own grave by having all the characters from the lost city speak line after line of the most dire mumbo-jumbo imaginable. They talk about magic, destiny, power, mind control and other such stuff, but the dialogue is written in a weird, lofty fashion that comes across like an 11 year old child attempting to imitate Shakespeare. I really wanted to be kind to this film - to give it the benefit of the doubt, if you like - but in the end I just couldn't manage it. As a well-told, well-made film it doesn't even register. But it also can't be enjoyed on the level of a likably oddball curiosity. It's just a totally ineffective, inconsequential and inept dud.