The above statement goes to the one obsessed fan who apparently written several reviews of this movie under different names and goes around blasting and writing to everyone who disagrees with his opinion. Apparently he would prefer to live in a society where only his matters and everyone must bow down before him. Well what to say about this movie...it is a very short, pointless anti something or another movie, possibly war or nukes, but lets face it all we got here is a missile that if launched would have no capabilities other than coming down again. It is way to small to be the highly specialized missile capable of knocking out any country you desire for you need a satellite to have something with that means and this weapon looks like a stick. For a better movie with an anti nuclear weapon message I would suggest Japan's own original "Godzilla". Here we have a man moving his family into an army base with a bunch of other families to work on the weapon. Of course along with these families there is also a family with an out of work dad and his wife and step child, why they are on this top secret base is beyond me, I highly doubt a woman would be working in such a facility in the 50's but then what do I know I think this movie sucks and that means I am an idiot. The wife is annoying, but then again I think this is just the way she acts as if you had seen her in the equally as bad "The Screaming Skull" you would realize she is basically playing the same role. The kids are all annoying brats, and so is the rest of the cast. From the heavens comes a blob, which for no reason gets bigger and helps the kids disarm said nuclear device through magical means of unlocking a gate. Wow, isn't that exciting, apparently kids from the 50's thought watching a blob get bigger and gates unlocking made for the best movie ever (well to the one disturbed fan it does). However, to me and most normal people this does not a good movie make...it makes for a very boring and pointless movie whose only redeeming value is that it is so absurdly done that you can make fun of it. A good message does not mean it is a good movie and one deranged fan who has probably 4 or 5 identities so he could pump up the score and write multiple reviews and say he disagrees with other reviews two or three times, makes for a person that probably should be put in a mental ward. And don't bother private messaging me psycho I have said my last words on this turkey "Space Children".