It's probably a bit unfair to compare this version of the Sweeney Todd story – as well as any other film version ever made before – with Tim Burton's film which came out in 2007, but at the same time also inevitable. Burton's movie is like the ultimate adaptation of the Sweeney Todd story, with the perfect cast (Johnny Depp, Alan Rickman, …), superior production values, dazzling music and breathtaking art-direction. Naturally all previously released versions pale in comparison, but that still doesn't mean they aren't interesting to watch. Despite being "just" a TV-production, talented names were involved in this movie as well, like director John Schlesinger ("Midnight Cowboy", "Day of the Locust") and veteran actor Ben Kingsley in the titular role. The plot details here differ with most other versions I've seen thus far and particularly Sweeney Todd's motivations to kill the customers that set foot in his barbershop aren't as convincing as usual. Here, Sweeney Todd is a downright merciless and malignant killer whereas in other versions he's more of a mentally tormented individual with pure vengeance on his mind. He kills random and seemingly lonely people in his barbershop and "donates" their bodies to his associate Mrs. Lovett; who processes the flesh in her acclaimed and world-famous London meat pies. Their morbid business finally raises suspicion when an American investigator arrives in London in search of a former partner. It turns out the missing person was last seen as a customer in Sweeney Todd's barber chair… "The Tale of Sweeney Todd" is reasonably entertaining throughout, although there are too many dull sequences and moments of substantial emptiness. The infamous lead character's profile is bleak this time around. You can't feel any empathy for him, but neither is he the intellectual and eloquent master villain that he pretends to be. Mostly surprising about this movie is the high amount of nasty make-up effects and grisly images. There are quite a lot of gruesome murders and their bloody aftermaths on display and some of the make up effects are even TOO repulsive, like for example Mrs. Lovett's dental hygiene. Kingsley's performance is far below his usual standards, but he nevertheless remains a professional chameleon actor. The best performance actually comes from the young Sean Flanagan as the mute barber assistant. It's certainly not a bad effort from the legendary director John Schlesinger, but I wouldn't go through too much trouble to purchase a copy.