Today, after eighteen long years, Elwood Blues has finally paid his debt to society and was being released from prison. After being escorted outside, he stood beside the road, eagerly awaiting his brother Jake to pick him up. Several hours go by and Jake had not arrived. Elwood waited until the next morning, when the warden finally came out and told him the awful news: Jake had passed away. Elwood received a ride home from Matara, a colleague of his old bandmember Willie. Once back in town, Elwood went to Malvern Gasperon's used car lot and set his sites on a classic police cruiser, similar to the one he had in the last adventure. But it was gonna cost $500, which he didn't have. Next, Elwood visits Mother Mary Stigmata at the new orphanage, since the old one had long since been demolished. Right away, Elwood learns that his old buddy Curtis had died. He also learns that Curtis had an illegitimate son. That's also when Elwood meets a young, sarcastic orphan named Buster. Mother Mary wanted Elwood to spend some time with the youngster--whether he wanted to or not.<br /><br />Elwood attempted to ditch the kid, though unsuccessfully, and seek out Curtis' son. He found him at the police station. He was Commander Cabel "Cab" Chamberlain. Elwood introduced himself, then told his "sort-of brother" that he was thinking of putting the band back together and asked if he'd like to join. He also asks to borrow $500 for a car. But Cab had the goods on Elwood and his late brother Jake. He refused, and personally kicked him out of the office. Outside, Buster picked his pocket and gave the wallet to Elwood, which ironically contained $500. So, Elwood purchased the police cruiser then he and Buster go for a very slow cruise. They stop off at Willie's strip club to try and convince Willie rejoin the band. Willie was hesitant, because the Russian mafia was watching him. But, Elwood and the bartender, Mack McTeer, bound and gag two Russian mobsters and leave them in the alley. This did not sit well with their leader, who demanded vengeance against Elwood and Willie; Elwood gives Mack an opportunity to perform at the club and sees he has talent. Just then, the Russians arrive and shoot up the club, then torch it. Luckily all the strippers, patrons, Matara, Elwood, Mack, Willie and Buster escape in time. Mack and Willie join the band. Next, Elwood tracks down the other members of the band: Matt "Guitar" Murphy, Donald "Duck" Dunne, Tom "Bones" Malone, Murph, Mr. Fabulous, and "Blue Lou" Marini and, in his own crude and crass way, convinces them to rejoin. Elwood even had Mack and Buster fitted with their own Blues suits. Now, all they needed was a gig. Unbeknownst to them, the Illinois state police and the Russian mafia were after them.<br /><br />Maury Sline, their old booking agent, managed to book them a gig at a county fair in Kentucky, and, an opportunity to play at Queen Mousette's Battle of the Bands at her club in Louisiana. So, Elwood, Mack and Buster in the new Bluesmobile, and the band in tow, hit the road. Always managing to stay one step ahead of a furious Cab and the entire Illinois police force. They play at the fair in Kentucky, but learned they wanted a bluegrass band, and not a blues band. So they played bluegrass, blues style. All the while Cab and the cops watched the stage, but monster trucks and a storm proved the perfect distraction; the Blues brothers and the band manage to elude the cops at a local tent revival, with the Reverend Cleophus James. When Cab arrived, something extraordinary happened. It was a miracle, some say. He had a revelation. His destiny became clear. He donned a nifty Blues outfit and joined the band. But the rest of the police force weren't buying it, so they chased the Blues Brothers band all the way to Louisiana where they competed in Queen Mousette's Battle of the Bands--and lost to the Louisiana Gator Boys. Well before long, Elwood and the gang found themselves surrounded by every cop in a thousand mile radius, as well as the Russian mafia. And worst of all, Mother Mary Stigmata! There was nothing left to do but run. Buster had a plan. While Mack and Cab created a diversion on stage, Elwood and Buster made a run for it in the Bluesmobile followed by a very long cavalcade of police cars.<br /><br />Blues Brothers 2000--what can I say? It was pretty good. It started off very properly with a proper dedication to John Belushi, Cab Calloway and John Candy. Dan Aykroyd returns as Elwood Blues, everyone's favorite crafty Blues con. John Goodman is on board as Mighty Mack McTeer. Joe Morton is Cab. J. Evan Bonifant is Buster. Frank Oz returns as the warden. And the late Kathleen Freeman returns as Mary Stigmata. Familiar faces Aretha Franklin and James Brown are here too. Belushi's absence from this film is definitely noticeable, but I think it's good they made Elwood a more central character, since in the original it was obvious Jake was the central character. They gave Elwood a chance to build. But personally, this wasn't much of a sequel, but rather a rehash of the first film. But if you liked the first film and would like to see a jazzy update, then Blues Brothers 2000 is for you. I recommend it. Like they say, the Lord works in mysterious ways.