I have to admit that when I was younger, I used to love watching this show, I actually thought it was very realistic and that it had a good plot each episode. Now of course, I was only 11 when I was watching the first season and I guess since it had grown up's in it, I assumed it was true to life. I grew up missing later seasons after Mary went to Buffalo to be with her grandparents. So years went by, not watching the show, not even missing it, but then one day I noticed on ABC Family that they were beginning to show the re-run's, so I figured I would watch the series again and give it another shot.<br /><br />The plot is basic, a minister's family has daily problems, usually mediocre and over blown. We have Eric, the dad and husband, he's also a minister at the local church. Annie, his wife and mother of 7, she's a home maker, tries to do little jobs here and there, but I guess Eric prefers her living at home. Matt who is the oldest brother, he's also throughout most of the series in college studying to be a doctor. Mary, the second oldest, a basketball star in high school, but goes onto "evil deeds" later on, the rebel of the family. Lucy, the third oldest, the drama queen sister. Simon, the fourth oldest, who is the bank to his siblings and is always having girl problems. Ruthie, the fifth oldest, the little know it all who gives advice and goes to special school for her talents. And lastly, the twins, who are the youngest, don't really get much character development on the show.<br /><br />Now we have major problems with this show that I realized, first off Aaron Spelling casts unbelievably good looking teens(who look nothing alike, when they're supposed to be siblings), not to mention their unrealistic reactions to their problems. I have learned from this show that you can heavily make out with guys, but it'll never lead to sex. If you're a smoker, you're a bad person. You can easily turn anyone else's problem into your own. When horrible problems occur that have nothing to do with you, guilt yourself, it's your fault somehow, even if you had no clue what was going on. If your wife is on hormones and drives you beyond insane(understandably), you remain patient and tolerant. Also, if you have a few financial problems, have one beer, don't go to college because you wanna figure out what you would like to do, oh, no, you can't do that in the Camdon family, they'll just ship you off to Buffalo.<br /><br />I think another problem I have with this show is that it's somewhat sexist, Annie is a house wife who really is more of a nut case than a strong female. If Lucy and her husband, Kevin, got into a fight, he just kissed her off and wouldn't talk to her about the problem. And in later seasons, Ruthie got some kind of a boyfriend at a young age, and she said she would die without him, it was just ridiculous. Another thing was how annoying an episode would be with a problem, some how everyone in the family had the exact same problem going on of some sort. The twins finishing each other's sentences was not cute, it showed a lack of material for them.<br /><br />I don't mean to complain so much about the show, it just had horrible acting and unbelievable situations. While it might be good for pre-teens, this is sadly not an adult show, it's insulting to the mind. I would love to say something good for this show, but I can't really, because it's hard to think about one good thing that I could say, it doesn't really have anything good. None of the characters are lovable, like Ruthie, who was supposed to be the wise one of the family was more annoying than tolerant. It's just a silly show when you really look at it, all I have to say to this family if I met them is to start minding their own business and take care of their own problems.