And it is! Anime is everywhere these days, even some of our most beloved American cartoon/comic characters have been revamped into something that are no longer recognizable and are adopting strange features that they are not supposed to have! In this case, Disney too now focuses on that genre, disregarding their natural talents and hire an animation company called Jetix (the same company that creates the truly awful Super-Monkey-Robot-Yada-Yada-Wha? show) to produce another abomination that is sure to attract fans of the kids magazine called W.I.T.C.H (obviously initials for the characters' names, which you can see on its opening title. How lame and cumbersome).<br /><br />Basically, I have no idea what the main story is about, but it's a bit like Harry Potter (since the first movie, everyone begins to imitate J.K. Rowling's success, but nevertheless fails to generate everlasting appeal) and a dot of Winxclub (which seems of plagiarize the former, plus lots more from other original anime preferences), which results in a badly mixed barf bag which older audiences have to consume to imagine its horrible taste (think of one event in Fear Factor where contestants are required to pick up garbage from the road and eat it!). First of all, animation is, well, what do you expect from conventional studios these days, Americanized Anime. Only more yucky. The character designs are equally generic and stiff as well (probably the most uninspiring is that little goblin who is obviously derived from Gollum/Dobbie). The costumes for the so-called Guardians are the worst I've seen in recent memories; with dull colors, poor choice of design and dreadful little wings, my interest begins to wane too quickly. I mean, c'mon, even little 'trick-or-treat' Halloween kids have better appearances than these 'pixies'! Plotwise, it's just like any other teen shows you have seen ranging from Sabrina to Ginger, so there's nothing to explain here. Basic magical elements such as water, fire, water... erg ... I just wonder if the writers of the show are capable of extracting their own bits of creativity instead of referring to the text books...<br /><br />No matter what the 'fans' say about the show in this section, true lovers of animation like me may agree with some of my statements, so please I beg you all to STEER AWAY FROM THEIR MAGICAL INFLUENCES!