man those were the good old days weren't they? <br /><br />-This spectacular piece of poop is about the three angels stopping a former angel from taking over the world or whatever. So the angels must stop her and whiles they're busy doing that they run into such amazing adventures like stripping for no reason and delivering lines so terrible they almost blew out my center speaker. In the incredibly predictable and crappy end they save the day and they all give us a constipated smile to suggest that they live happily ever after. Wow that has never been done before. I always thought that foolscreen DVD's were the worst thing to happen to cinema but it turns out I was wrong, that crown goes to the master filmmaker McG. How the hell he keeps getting his movies green lit is perhaps the greatest mystery since "why Paris Hilton is famous". I'm really glad that he dropped out of the new "Superman" movie and let the supremely talented Bryan Singer direct, because if he had directed it then "Batman Begins" would have been the first and only great DC comics movie.<br /><br />-I really hate this movie. Usually there's something decent about every movie but this movie had NOTHING. Much like that dog poop "House of the Dead" this movie is devout of any form of entertainment what so ever. There are potholes so big you can drive a tank through them. Then there's the lines, my god this movie has pound for pound some of the worst dialog ever to invade my ears. Whoever was the DP on this movie needs to beaten severely because the look of this crap gave me a headache. The colors are so bright and so "look at me" that it causes nausea, and the lights are so heavy on the actors that their faces look like it has had too much make up applied to it. <br /><br />-The fights are also incredibly stupid. You can tell that these women are on a wire so much that it borders on the idiotic. McG's attitude in this crap was that the angles can do anything, and that includes sliding under tables and doing cartwheels with a chair. Another thing that drove me insane is that these girls are suppose to be intelligent and yet they keep acting stupid in every scene that we see them in. There is one scene in which the angels must retrieve a key from a man and instead of waiting for him in a parking lot and knocking him down to steal the key, they instead opt to do a striptease and distract him. I'm sure some horny 14 year old may find that entertaining but if you're not horny, and 14 then you'll find it as pointless as everyone else did. The music is bland and the jokes go down faster than Jenna Jameson at work. If you look up deplorable in the dictionary you'll see a picture of this movie<br /><br />-If you have a party and you want to clear out the room then pop this movie in and surely everyone will leave your house so you can clean up, but if you're not having a party and want to clear the room then please by all means avoid this with all your might. it is really dreadful and painful, kinda like my jokes.