This one of the most blatantly non-American fascistic movie I've seen in a long time. So we are treated with ET's living in an ecological paradise looking like a sixties leftover's wet dream. Notice that all of them are white and clean-cut ; apparently, there doesn't seem to be any opposition to this "ideal" way of life (no work, no music, no incentive, no arts, no nothing. Ah, yes : popping rug rats seems to be the only thing worthwile.) One of them is forced to go to Earth, though they admit they've been "quite racists" towards the earthlings. So, on ET's goes to Earth, and what does she do ? Nothing. Oh, yes, scramble the brain of some guys who doesn't think the right way, but in a playful manner. But nothing gets any better. Obviously, their status of Unbermensch gives those aliens the right to mess everything up. Of course, if they are so powerful, they could do something against pollution or whatever seems to be bad, but no, they don't mess with Untermensch. At the end, the alien messes up a football match in a playful way, spoiling the fun of the people who watch it (considered as morons, I guess.) Well, I hate football and rather go to the dentist than see through a whole game, but why can't people appreciate it ? But apparently, in this ideal universes, This Is Bad. Thou Shalt Not Have Fun As Thou Wish. Great. So much for open-mindness. At the end, the ET's finally go back, bringing with them some "good" persons (meaning : who understands that there is nothing better than doing nothing but raising rug rats in a perfect, white, clean-cut environment and goose-stepping no, they left that one out. Well, in the movie's world, those aliens can go to hell as far as I'm concerned. I'd rather listen to Faith No More with my Algerian friends than deal with their "Silence concertoes", whatever that is. If that makes me one of the subhumans (even if I'm white, so I have a redeeming quality), well, so I am and sue me. In France, the National Front leader is called no, don't call him at all, just boo. It is obvious that if he was a woman and a mother, Mrs Serraut would have found her Führer. Oh, and for those interested, no, there are no special effects. Though those hippies dresses