Caught this one by accident on the TV here ; although the ending was about as satisfying as could be, it was difficult to feel any real emotion. Looking at it from the moral point of view, the Bible, which is the ultimate moral authority, teaches us that homosexuality is wrong, so wrong it is and the matter cannot be up for discussion. That said, the question is " how far should the punishment go " or "should it go as far as depriving a mother of her child if she is homosexual". This will obviously depend on each family involved so there is no hard and fast rule but what absolutely blew me was ... if she was a homosexual, how on earth could she have had a child ??? (Assuming the birth was not due to rape ). As I missed the first few minutes of the film, I have no way of knowing this - but if no rape is involved, this would be a major plot flaw. Jody's mother is acting in what she perceives to be the best interests of the child - what is worrying is that the child would appear to have been referring to it's mother's partner as "daddy" - very dangerous as a child needs to be brought up in a family unit of male father and female mother. Children brought up with a mother and no father, a father and no mother or worse,two fathers or two mothers are bound to suffer a disadvantage in their perception of the family unit and it is up to the adults to act in a responsible matter once they have decided to procreate. Homosexuals will obviously view the film in a different light as they will put the emphasis on the love the mother has for the child, and suggest that the sexual relationship of the "parents" is secondary if not irrelevant. They will be able to feel the emotions of the mother and will be indignant at the attitude of the grandmother - and that is quite understandeable. The character of the little boy is not that well developed and unfortunately we don't really know what he thinks - he is more an innocent victim of the bickering. But, to return to my title, it is difficult to feel real emotion, given the immoral context and one can only regret the plight of the child to have been caught up in this through no fault of his own. As I feel that society is becoming more and more immoral, not only through homosexuality but also through corruption, violence, paedophilia, lies, greed ....it is necessary to take stock of and protest against this every time it occurs - albeit in the course of a film. The bible tells us not to judge others on a personal level but nevertheless to make known one's views on different moral issues with vehemence...and that's where the fine line has to be drawn !!