In the year 2002, a young Californian director named Lucky McKee too the independent film scene by surprise with a modest tale of horror and suspense named "May", the tale of a young woman traumatized by her difficult childhood. "May" quickly became a cult-favorite due to its remarkably well-done script, it's superbly original direction and the breakthrough performance of Angela Bettis in the lead role. Thanks to this success, three years later McKee was offered a bigger project by United Artists, a horror film named "The Woods". Sadly, the film ended up shelved due to the company's many problems until 2006, when finally, "The Woods" was released straight to video. While far from the originality of "May", this classy Gothic horror is definitely a worthy film that really deserved a theatrical release, as it's infinitely superior to most films that do get one these days. <br /><br />Set in 1965, "The Woods" is the story of Heather Fasulo (Agnes Bruckner), a young and troubled teenage girl who is sent to an isolated private school for girls by her parents after her failed attempt to burn her house. As she gets used to her new school, she begins to experience strange supernatural events after strangely, she is granted a scholarship by the headmistress, Ms. Traverse (Patricia Clarkson). Heather begins to hear voices from the woods calling her, and begins to have visions of horror apparently related to a legend surrounding witchcraft and a secret of the school's past. Soon Heather will have to unveil those secrets as the voices of the woods claim the should Marcy (Lauren Birkell), the only friend she's ever had.<br /><br />"The Woods" is David Ross' debut as scriptwriter, and while of course it shows some of the common problems of a first time writer, it also shows that Ross knows his influences very well (in more than a way, the story is a homage to Argento's "Suspiria"). While Ross' story of horror and isolation may not be the most original in the world, what makes it stand out is the fact that it is always focused on its characters and their interactions. Through the story one can really get to know not only the main character, but also the many supporting characters no matter how small their role is. It's not exactly a character study, but it's an excellent (and rarely seen these days) way to build up a horror film.<br /><br />It's not a surprise that McKee accepted this project, as Ross' script takes on many of McKee's familiar themes such as loneliness and angst. What it's really surprising is the way that McKee makes the story his own with a style that seems to adapt classic Gothic horror to his own artistic ideal without being unfaithful to both and without being too much of a copy of his previous masterpiece. McKee creates a film that shows his evolution as a filmmaker, his domain of the genre and most of all, a versatility that certainly shows that he is more than a one hit wonder. It's also worth to point out that McKee makes the most of John R. Leonetti's wonderful cinematography and specially of the eerie score by John Frizzell and Jaye Barnes Luckett; creating a haunting horror film that like Ross' script, pays good homage to Argento's legendary masterpiece.<br /><br />One of the best things about "May" was the excellent cast and with "The Woods", McKee continues to show his skills at getting remarkable performances from his actors. Leading the cast is Agnes Bruckner as Heather, and while nothing amazing, she carries the film and makes us care for her character. The film's jewel is without a doubt Patricia Clarkson's deliver as Ms. Traverse, and every scene with her is a joy to watch. Lauren Birkell appears in a supporting role as Marcy, and among the younger cast she is easily the best actress of the movie. I hope to see more of her in the future. Rachel Nichols, Emma Campbell and legendary horror actor Bruce Campbell complete the cast, each one of them delivering great acting in their respective roles (specially Bruce in an atypical role for him).<br /><br />Personally I think that "The Woods"' biggest problem would be the high expectations created by McKee's previous work. It's not that the film lacks quality (it's certainly really good), but it's not exactly in the same tone as "May" or "Sick Girl". "The Woods" plays on the tone of older, classic horrors with ominous Gothic atmospheres and a slow build up that will probably disappoint people expecting something more "modern" (although this doesn0t mean that McKee's style is out of place). The slow way the film's plot unfolds and the notorious lack of "scares" in the classic way may be one of the reasons the movie was sent straight to video. A big shame if you ask me, as this classy and elegant horror film is as good (if not better) than the series of slashers and remakes released lately.<br /><br />It's safe to say that the promising talent that McKee showed up in "May" was not the product of a mere lucky strike, and that with "The Woods" McKee continues his growth as a director expanding his horizons to other film-making styles. This movie is a very recommended film to those with a preference for Gothic films about the supernatural, and of course to fans of "Suspiria". It's really great to be able to finally see "The Woods", as for once, the long wait for it was worthy. 8/10