***SOME SPOILERS CONTAINED HEREIN***<br /><br />This so called 'shockumentary' is sick and obviously written by a very unwell person. The movie is presented by 'Dr gore' who, as he tries his best to read from some autocue and make it sound convincing, narrates us through scenes of recently dead victims of crashes, suicides and murders. If this is what you want, I presume it is or you wouldnt be here right? then that is fine. This movie probably delivers in every way for you. Graphic, Bloody and definitely Gory. The problem I have (apart from the fact that seeing this has made me realise I must have grown up from since when I used to go to rotten.com and impress my mates with just how sick a video or image I could find and mail them!) is that Dr Gore makes some rather pathetic comments along the way in this 'movie'. The worst of which being when we see the result of a train crash and the charred bodies are taken out one by one. One body is that of a pregnant woman. The heat was so intense as to have made a hole in her stomach, revealing the embryonic foetus inside. At this point the good Dr Gore starts a tirade of NONSENSE about -Unmarried mothers being worthless and useless to society and we are better off that this happened to her. Then he just finishes me off with the line 'This is probably one of the most popular and best of our faces of gore. This way we get two for the price of one.'<br /><br />He is joking about a dead unborn baby. Hmm. I shouldn't have watched this utter trash. To top it all, he then 'introduces' some 'great hollywood special effects' to compare for us, with what we have just seen. Note that the 'great hollywood movie' is actually a film made by the same company which then leads me to the train of thought.. This trash is being used as some kind of advertising platform for a cr4p movie?! (believe me, the movie clip they show is unbelievably amatuer and very stupid!!) Ok thats enough. If you get a chance to see this...well... if you are a teenager..if its a sick evening and a bit of a party then I'm sure it would be fun. Possibly. If you are a bit older perhaps or just value your stomach contents, dont watch this ;) If you are considering PAYING ANY CASH to see or rent this - DONT. These people are unwell. They dont deserve a cent for making this.