It was a DVD called Ultimate Boogeyman that I heard about this horror film and it's leading villain from, and then I heard a few other things about it, and decided to see if my predictions would be correct. Basically Daniel 'Dan' O'Grady (Shay Duffin) has returned to America from Ireland after stealing 100 pieces of gold from the magical and nasty Leprechaun (Warwick Davis), but he manages to trap him in a crate covered with a four-leafed clover before having a stroke. Ten years pass, and J.D. Reding (John Sanderford) and his spoilt daughter Tory (introducing Jennifer Aniston, a year or two before Friends) move in to O'Grady's old house. Three painters: Nathan Murphy (Ken Olandt), his brother Alex (Robert Hy Gorman) and their dim-witted friend Ozzie (Mark Holton arrive to fix the house up a little. It is Ozzie that accidentally releases the Leprechaun, hearing voices, and he threatens to kill him if he doesn't get his gold back, and luckily, his powers are weak. Ozzie tries to convince everyone of what he saw, but they obviously don't believe him, and then he and Alex spot a rainbow, and follow it knowing there should be a pot of gold at the end, which there is. Ozzie swallows one coin, and they hide the rest, while taking one to a Pawn Shop Owner (John Volstad) to see if they are valuable, and obviously Leprechaun kills the collector to get his first coin back. Slowly the Leprechaun starts to show up more spooking everyone, until they all know that there is a scary creature after them. Tory goes to O'Grady at the hospital to find out how they can kill the Leprechaun, and when she does find him he says they need a four-leafed clover. So after some chases and trappings, they get time to search for this clover in a big patch, and luckily find it, just when Leprechaun has got his gold and realised one coin is missing. In the end, Alex manages to catapult the clover into Leprechaun's mouth, and he falls into the well gagging green blood and being blown up by petrol and a match. Also starring Pamela Mant as Mrs. O'Grady, William Newman as Sheriff Cronin and David Permenter as Deputy Tripet. Davis as Leprechaun might remind me of another Chucky from the Child's Play series in some ways, with cheeky one liners and a good actor to play the part, but he is not a brilliant lead villain, but fans got many sequels to follow. The acting is terrible, the dialogue is dreadful, the special effects don't do anything, and the story is one of the least interesting ever, apart from maybe fans of the series, no-one is going to enjoy a lacklustre horror like this. Poor!