Oh yes European culture and the Eurovision Song Contest which is like Adolph Hitler and racial harmony appearing in the same sentence . Actually this years contest was far worse than usual because the tunes seemed confused . Croatia's song started off with some bagpipe music while the entries from Greece and the United Kingdom sounded more Turkish than the entry by the Turks . Oh and the Greeks did a bit of riverdancing which probably was a cynical attempt to fool the voters into thinking they were watching Ireland who often win but for some reason didn't qualify for the final this year <br /><br />Okay lets be truthful and say I was hoping the best looking female contestant was going to win . I guess I shouldn't be too disappointed since the Greek contestant had the best legs and she won while Romania had the best cleavage and she came third with the Israeli motek also doing very well . Unfortunately there was a miscarriage of justice with some ugly fat bird from Malta getting the runner up spot which adds fuel to the rumours that it's only middle aged homosexuals who vote in this contest .<br /><br />As for the music it was instantly forgettable . Norway does deserve some credit since they contributed an act that seemed very similar to a tribute band for Brit glam rockers The Darkness and Denmark's entry could easily have passed as a respectable POP IDOL contender . Talking of POP IDOL Britain was represented by Javine a former contestant of one of the reality pop shows but her performance on the night was very very poor and she ended up near the bottom of the final vote <br /><br />As for the voting itself this what gets my goat . Countries continue to vote for their neighbours regardless of the merit of the songs themselves . Greece and Cyprus give each other twelve points while the Balkan , Baltic and Scandinavian countries scratch each others backs . It's totally ridiculous as is the fact that while only 24 countries take part a total of 39 countries vote . In fact I think the majority of the running time was taken up with the voting rather than the singing . Good job nobody takes this competition seriously otherwise it would cause world war three