Saw this one over at the local electronics store for $10.99 with a recommendation on the front that it was a "worthy addition to any gorehound's DVD shelf" by Rue Morgue. So I figured I couldn't go wrong on this one. I shoulda put it back on the shelf and invested in that 6 DVD "Lone Wolf and Cub" collection instead. Where do I start? OK, the plot. Well, the plot isn't much of a plot. It's in a world where zombies are overunning society and our story centers around a group of police like soldiers called the Zombie Squad. They're guarding a facility where some scientists are working on a cure for the epidemic. Meanwhile in another part of town a cult run by a guy wearing old people's sunglasses, you know those huge black ones, is doing human sacrifices and worshipping the zombie epidemic mainly because the cult leader's son was turned into one. The cultists are causing problems with the Zombie Squad and scientists over philosophical differences and that's where trouble begins. So, that's the story really. The major characters are named after famous horror directors like Raimi, Romero, Carpenter, etc. (Side note: The box claims that this film was made with the help of a LEGENDARY Hollywood Director. This is misleading. It turns out that Sam Raimi of "Evil Dead" fame merely helped finance this pile of dung.) The acting ranges from competent to "go back to the drama club... PLEASE". I mean some of these performances are just god awful bad and it's apparent why when you look through the DVD extras. There's an audition section on there where they show that everyone in the movie were just walk on's whose only requirement in the audition was to tell an interesting story about themselves and scream. No acting out any dialogue or anything. Well, you get what you get I guess. The special effects were pretty cool in some parts of the flick and lame in others. I've read some reviews that said the effects were awesome. Believe me, they are not. They're not even really that gory except for a shot here and there. Factor in that this film was shot in Super 8, a filming format not even up to stuff with an average $300 video camera you can get today, and you get the picture.<br /><br />The box claims that this film was digitally remastered. I hate to break it to the film makers but transferring the original Super 8's to DVD does not constitute digital remastering. There's also a Dolby 5.1 soundtrack but it doesn't enhance the experience. I barely noticed anything significant coming from my rear speakers. The DVD is loaded with extras but they are pretty boring. One amusing extra is the "Frightvision 2000 Reunion" clip. It shows some of the original cast members and director talking about how looking back on it again they've realized what a wonderful film they made. I guess time really does make you forget. There are maybe 15 or 20 people in the audience listening to them talk one of which is some goth guy whose face says "please shoot me now".<br /><br />All in all this one isn't recommended kiddies unless you are into self-torture.