The Chronicles of Riddick may seem like a cool movie but behind all the special effects, it isn't. Richard Riddick (Diesel), the anti-hero from Pitch Black is back. This time, the space fugitive with night vision is being chased across the galaxy by mercenaries out to collect the price on his head. On the planet Helion, he encounters Lord Marshal (Colm Feore) and his invading warriors the Necromongers, and when Riddick is imprisoned, he must escape and put a stop to Marshal's evil reign. The plot sounds like it has some potential but the execution was done poorly. Pitch Black was fairly entertaining but this sequel is far from entertaining and its one of the worst films of 2004. What's wrong with this film? Well first the acting isn't very good though, this isn't very surprising. Judi Dench did the best job out of everyone else though she isn't in the film for a long time. Vin Diesel didn't talk in the first one yet he does so in this film and that's not a good thing. He is a passable actor in some films but in a couple of films, his performance is really bad. Thandie Newton and Colm Feore both give bad and forgettable performances. This is one film they both should leave off their resumes. David Twohy does an okay job of directing but I'm surprised how he could have messed up this one after doing a good job on the original. The dialog in the film is bad and unintentionally funny. The action scenes are average and none really stand out either. The special effects are done really well yet sometimes they go overboard with them. The characters could have been handled better. The story is weak and it does become very silly at times. The ending was done alright but it was also kind of dumb. The main problem with this movie is that it's boring. There were hardly any entertaining moments in it. It's only two hours long but it feels so much longer. They also tamed the film, giving it a PG-13 rating. This made the film ruin the first one and made Riddick seem a lot weaker. In the end, The Chronicles of Riddick is a very disappointing sequel to Pitch Black. It's also just a bad Sci-Fi action flick in general and not worth watching. Rating 3/10, you're better of if you just skip this.