I suspect that some of the reason this film is currently on IMDb's Bottom 100 List (the 100 lowest rated films with at least 1500 ratings) is because of its obvious political agenda. This film is audacious and dares to create a horror film in which an aborted child comes back to literally haunt the lady who aborted it several years later. The idea, though very controversial, is unusual and could have been done well...but this film wasn't done all that well. However, it surely is not among the worst 100--nor, probably, the worst 1000. It's not a very good film but I am pretty sure what you think of it is going to be greatly influenced by your opinions about the morality of an abortion. HOWEVER, I still think it was done badly--and probably will offend people on both sides of the issue. The film just goes way overboard and is, at times, rather sick and nasty--more about this later.<br /><br />The film begins with a dancer finding out she's pregnant. She has problems--she's unmarried, her lover is already married and she's up for an important lead. So, she gets an illegal abortion that is apparently botched. Three years pass and she's now happily married and pregnant again. However, oddly, she begins seeing and hearing from the dead child she aborted. The concept is daring and could have worked--but the film makers chose to just be sick. At one point, the dead kid walks around playing with what is supposed to be a dead fetus. It's graphic and nasty--and you wonder why! This is unnecessary and gross--and it's sort of like punishing the audience to make them watch it. Had the film backed off in the disgusting imagery, it would have clearly been more watchable. Another problem is that although up until the end you are never sure if the haunting is really the aborted child or just a manifestation of the guilt the lady feels about her past actions, the uncertainty and psychological aspects of the film (the best things about ARAF) are completely done away with--providing an ending that is just too well defined. Leaving the audience wondering would have made for a much, much more interesting film--one that could be debated and discussed once the film was complete. Instead, it's all telegraphed and pat...not a good ending at all.<br /><br />Overall, due to bad directing and a script with too many problems (the disgusting elements alone are too great), I cannot recommend it. However, just because the film is offensive does not mean it's an altogether horrible film nor does it deserve such a very bad reputation. It's bad...but not THAT bad.