My oh my, Oswaldo de Oliveira must have had the time of his life whilst filming this ultimately depraved and sleaze-laden Women In Prison classic. There are almost no men involved in this production and all the female stars – with the notable exception of the nasty lunch-lady – are stunningly ravishing wenches. Easily one of the most shameless and politically incorrect exploitation flicks ever made, "Bare Behind Bars" has absolutely no substantial content (or at least very few), but proudly offers wall-to-wall lesbian action, nudity and even some X-rated hardcore action. Welcome to the Brazilian all-girls exclusive "Prisão", where the inmates seemingly enjoy hiding sharp & pointy objects in their most intimate body parts, the wardens' uniforms only have buttons below the bosom-section, the dumb Marilyn Monroe resembling nurse has a very peculiar interpretation of the term health inspection and fake penis toys are referred to as the Seventh Wonder of the World. Life honestly isn't that bad in this film, as the girls are allowed to play sex games with each other as well as with the wardens and, occasionally, the prettiest ones are sold to rich lesbians for big money. Of course, eventually, a couple of courageous prisoners plan an escape, resulting in violence, torture and death. "Bare Behind Bars" is really the sleaziest and most rancid WIP-movie imaginable. I estimate that maximally five seconds is thee longest period without nudity in this film. There are many extended (and ridiculously overlong) shower sequences and pointless girl-on-girl fondling moments, but it's all shockingly boring & terribly UN-sexy. The last half hour is much more exciting and violent, but it's far too late to save the film unfortunately. As said, the women in this film (inmates as well as wardens, nurses and rich lesbian buyers) are quite beautiful, albeit speaking in terms of 70's exploitation. This means they're definitely not anorexic and their pubic regions are about half the size of the Amazon jungle. "B.B.B." is probably a must-see for all fans of the WIP sub genre, but it could and should have been much better. I very much prefer the Italian outings ("Women's Prison Massacre", "Women in Fury") that are perhaps slightly less sleazy, but feature more action, suspense and better actresses.