"The Monster Club" of 1980 is the last and least of the Horror omnibuses from specialist company Amicus. Fellow Gothic Horror enthusiast have warned me about the film, and so did several other reviews on this great page, but as an enthusiastic fan of even the cheesier kind of Gothic Tales, who loved the other Amicus Productions, I still decided to buy it cheaply, especially since Vincent Price is my all-time favorite actor. The warnings sadly turned out to be reasonable, as the film is an unworthy final entry to Amicus' reign in the Horror-omnibus world. The film is no total disaster, but it is entirely disappointing, which even the film's great cast does not change. While all the Amicus films had a (usually great) sense of humor, this one provides little more than absolutely mindless slapstick, and is accompanied by terrible music that will annoy the hell out of the viewer. What makes this even more disappointing is the fact that director Roy Ward Baker is a more than capable man, who enriched the World of Horror with such great films as "Quatermass And The Pit", "Scars Of Dracula", or "The Vampire Lovers", which he made for the Hammer Studios. Even though disappointing, however, "The Monster Club" is still worth checking out for its superb cast. The film stars none less than three all-time Horror-greats, Vincent Price, John Carradine, and Donald Pleasence, as well as the always sexy Britt Ekland in a small role. The great cast is a reason to watch the film, and yet expectations should be kept low - The film is among the least memorable in either of the three Horror stars' repertoires, and the beautiful Miss Ekland has only a very small role.<br /><br />A Horror story writer (Carradine) runs into a vampire named Erasmus (Price), who subsequently takes him to a 'Monster Club' at which all types of monsters, such as Vampires, Ghouls, Werewolves and hybrids such as 'Vamghouls'. Erasmus then narrates three stories in order to explain the diversity of Monster species to his guest. The first and second stories are merely satirical, and in a very silly way. The first one, which introduces the monster species 'Shadmock', is amusing, in a way, but unfortunately also quite tedious. The second story, a slapstick vampire story which is actually a film in the film, is the worst of the three, very simple and even more silly, even though it is this one which stars both Donald Pleasence and Britt Ekland. The third story, a Ghoul story, is a lot better than the other two, and the only part of the film that has a certain creepiness. Hollywood tough guy Staurt Whitman plays a film director who visits a remote ghost-town - with ghoulish results... Inbetween the stories, the film switches back to the Monster club, where a dreadful band plays extremely dreadful 80s pop music. The music is so awful it is hard to listen to, and I admittedly watched most of the concerts at the Monster Club in the fast forward mode. The visibly aged stars, Carradine and Price are far from their best, and yet it is them who make the film a lot more worthwhile, especially Price brings in some great wit more than once. Overall, "The Monster Club" is watchable for its stars, and for the decent last story, but I can certainly not recommend it. My advice: Watch the other Amicus productions, or any other film starring Vincent Price instead!