I came out of watching this film revolted to my stomach. We all know that Héctor Lavoe wasn't a saint, and his life was indeed a tragedy from when he became famous on... but the overwhelming feeling you get from all real-life sources of information and trivia that have described his life in the past is that, contrary to the despotic, abusive brute portrayed in the film, Héctor's character was way more generous, more people-friendly (I'll talk about this in a minute), pained, multidimensional than what we're fed with through Marc Anthony's interpretation. That role, Marc plays quite well, so let's not diminish his and Jennifer Lopez's acting talents on what is a flawed script to begin with (heavily biased in favor of Puchy Rosario's viewpoint of things). But this is not a movie about Héctor's life, this is, somehow, a caricature of a Tony Montana of sorts turned salsa singer.<br /><br />This movie says "personal vanity project" all over it, and is more a vehicle for pushing J-Lo's talent to people's faces (more so than Marc Anthony's, even!) than a serious recreation of the man and his music. Another big blunder is the portrayal of Willie Colón, which is inaccurate to the hilt. The gossip fodder has been put underneath a microscope; in the past, Willie has been blunt and frank about his own life's mistakes, but was a far more serious, genius-like, professional influence over these facts than was portrayed of him. His is a blur here.<br /><br />I do share the feeling that the movie comes across as a big movie video. Marc's pipes are undeniably good, even if his on-stage portrayal of Héctor is a bit stiff. J-Lo's sex appeal and talent oozes through, of course, but this movie isn't named "La Esposa del Cantante" for nothing. We have no notion of what drove Héctor to New York to begin with, how big the Willie Colón years really were... we're not even truly aware on how much Héctor was manipulated by those who do manipulated him in real life. And, since most real-life sources have stated that their contribution to the film was squelched to begin with, this comes across as a flashy, lopsided, expensive mess of a biopic.<br /><br />Too bad the non-Latinos will only have this movie as a reference of Héctor's impact over Latin American culture and salsa proper. As it has turned out, the hardcore fans who have seen it hate the movie... and so do I, who happen not to be one.<br /><br />There's an apocryphal story about Lavoe actually meeting Marc Anthony shortly before his death. At the time, Marc looked like a rocker, sort of a Latino Axl Rose. Héctor, who spared no one in the teasing department, said: "¡Qué nena fea!" (What an ugly girl!) when they met. Marc, as big a chip on his shoulder as he has proved himself to have, probably never forgave him...