Curses on you, Corman! Any fan of MST3K has had to watch far too many of your dreadful snooze-fests. Boring, gray, horrible messes of films, with you trying to get intellectual(and generally failing). The only thing that stands out in most of your schlock is that the women tend to be intelligent and/or kick-ass. Gotta give ya that, if nothing else. <br /><br />In the Undead, an idiot paranormal researcher hypnotizes a a hooker and sends her back into her own past life, as a young woman accused of being a witch in the Middle Ages. Actually, it looked like the hooker just attended a Ren Fest instead, and one with only about seven other people attending it. The scenes in the 'past' play out like Shakespeare on acid, and the cut scenes back to the 'present' are like trying to read Dostoyevski all in one sitting.<br /><br />The hooker manages to help her 'past self' escape from the cardboard..err.stone tower that she's being held prisoner in. Outside on the one set, she encounters a gravedigger who makes Hamlet's look like a sane guy in comparison. She also encounters all six of the other Ren folk, including an old hag who's REALLY a witch; a beautiful young witch in service of the devil who can change her form and is out to steal the accused witch's boyfriend; an imp played with great joie de vivre by Billy Barty; said boyfriend, the dreary and uninteresting knight(what these two saw in him I don't know); and, of course, Satan. Satan in this one looks like he just escaped from a Broadway musical, so camp is he.<br /><br />It turns out that the idiot researcher has managed to screw up the hooker's life even more than it was, since if the might-be witch lives instead of being executed, she'll not re-incarnate and none of her future lives will take place. Good job, dummy. Anyhoo, he finds a way to go into his own past, or her's, I wasn't really sure on that point. If it was his, it's pretty convenient that they both lived in the same time and place, no? he has to convince the girl to go tamely to her execution, which after spending some time with her boyfriend she decides would be a good thing. She goes under the headsman's axe, the boyfriend killed the shape changing witch(he's gotta be gay), and there's another puzzling cut scene of the pansyish Satan mouthing off about Hell(or something). End of another great Corman film, and the end of yet another few of my brain cells.