As I suspect is the case with most people who have seen this film, it was the title that attracted me to it. However, I actually wish that a less witty one had been selected, because then I might not have bothered with this silly little slasher flick. In fairness, the film has suffered a lot in production; but somehow I suspect that A Night to Dismember was never going to be a masterpiece. The film differs from the majority of slashers as much of it is told from the point of view of a detective in the form of voice-over. However, this idea is squandered immediately because of the fact that his voice sounds ridiculous, thus giving the whole piece a jokey sort of feel, and it's squandered further because most of what he's saying is delivered in a very patronising manner. The 'plot' follows a young woman and her release from a mental hospital. I'm sure you can guess where that idea is going, and we follow the guy from the voice over as he pieces the clues together and tries to get to the bottom of the brutal murder spree.<br /><br />To be honest, I'm glad that a lot of footage for this film was lost; because I really don't think I could stomach much more of this film. Despite being just over an hour long, A Night to Dismember is really boring; I had a headache before watching it, and it only got worse as A Night to Dismember droned on. And on. The disjointed approach to the plotting ensures that it's extremely difficult to get into the film, and this is made worse by the fact that the plot is extremely derivative, like most slashers. The violence is fairly extreme, but it's so inept that it generates more laughs than scares. There's a scene that sees someone put their hand through someone's chest and squeeze their heart...and it looks like it was put together by a below average team of five year olds. The final twist really puts the tin hat on the piece, as it's thrown in at the last minute without any build up, thus making it impossible to care or be shocked by it. Of course, I'd heard this film was bad going into it, but for some reason I didn't want to believe it. I believe it now and wish I hadn't bothered; A Night to Dismember is not recommended.