I find this film and what I consider its companion piece RADIO DAYS to be two simply sublime films. I used to run them as a double feature at my seaside cinema in the 80s and they always were attended by a growing number of appreciative fans who often brought new admirers along....great word of mouth successes. in Australia most Woody Allen films of the 70s and 80s were quite popular (until the terrible SHADOWS AND FOG and the stupid MANHATTAN MURDER MYSTERY and don't get me started on the mind numbing drivel of his latest London effort with Scarlet Johanssen: SCOOP............) and in the 80s at Orion Pictures he seemed to strike a new high in critical and popular successes. I am very surprised to research here and find that this film was 'obscure'... as it is not in Australia. This film and RADIO DAYS were big hits, so I am pleased to say I did my bit as a cinema owner then to help this happen. CAIRO really is a valentine to the moviegoer, and with Mia Farrow perfect as the downtrodden unhappy Cecelia, in a location and town so perfectly realised as well... a bittersweet reality bite with a hilarious RKO society adventure as the pivotal picture at the lovely little Jewel Theatre. If you see the 1932 RKO film MUMMY'S BOYS you will get the PURPLE ROSE for real, even if that film is a very silly comedy with Wheeler and Wolseley. In CAIRO the atmosphere and characters are quite well realised for my affectionate tastes but the real stars of the film to me are the production designers and Allen's hilarious and sad storyline. The idea of the film talking back itself and the movie actors noticing the audience... hilarious! and the chaos that ensues.... all of it is just ideal for my tastes. Along with RADIO DAYS and SWEET AND LOWDOWN and possibly MATCH POINT, CAIRO makes a perfect set of films. The scene with Cecelia looking wistful at the Astaire Rogers film is perhaps one of the great acting moments on film. Her face subtly changing from sad bewilderment to becoming absorbed in the new film is an emotional high only bettered by the fact that she puts her ukulele on the seat next to her; she realises she isn't going anywhere and this new film might just be all right anyway. I think I just sob every time I see that scene. Perfect. I also laughed for about 3 years at this exchange between audience and screen: Man in audience to Old Dame on screen: Hey you can't talk to my wife like that! ..............Old Dame on screen: I 'm a Duchess and I'm loaded so I can say what I like and if that's your wife she's a tub of guts"