Simply embarrassing. This "film," which is an introduction into the role-playing board game of the same name, has been a source of amusement for my old high school buddies and me for years. One of us owned the game, although we never played it, but stumbled across this dreck some years back. It is so awful, so ridiculous, that it just happens to be one of the funniest 30 minutes of your life. While trying to lay out the rules and regulations of said game, Dragonstrike gives you a cheesy story-line played out by cheesier actors in front of the cheesiest excuse for blue screen this side of the helicopter crash sequence in Sudden Death. However, Dragonstrike might just be so bad, that it's good. Some notable things to look for during you're "quest":<br /><br />1. Deron McBee - Perhaps best known for his days on American Gladiators as Malibu, McBee turns in another muscle-head performance here as the Warrior. The running joke between my friends is that we believe they actually blue-screened McBee's teeth in order to make them as white as they appear in the film.<br /><br />2. John Boyle (I) as the Dragonmaster - Some one should have fired this guy a long time ago. Hardly believable and hilariously laughable, the Dragonmaster is the Narrator of the whole ordeal. Watch for his "floating head," actually Boyle in a black turtle-neck against a black back-drop. Try not to laugh as he asks you to "kindly cast a 'pause' spell on your VCR."<br /><br />3. "Smite" - Boyle gives us the crown jewel of Dragonstrike which, I am sure, once noticed will have you rolling. Toward the end of the film, the Dragonmaster goes into an embarrassing monologue about your adventures, during which he states, "...and the evil you will smite!" Look closely on the word "smite," and you will notice that it has been horribly dubbed over from the past tense of the word, "smote," that the Dragonmaster must have gotten wrong during shooting. Apparently the budget for Dragonstrike wasn't big enough for another take in this scene.