The Purple Rose Of Cairo (1985): Mia Farrow, Jeff Daniels, Danny Aiello, Stephanie Farrow, Irving Metzman, David Kieserman, Victoria Zussin, Elaine Grollman, Mark Hammond, Wade Barnes, Peter Castelloti, Tom Degidon, Edward Hermann, John Wood, Deborah Rush, Van Johnson, Eugene J. Anthony, Ebb Miller, Karen Akers, Annie Joe Edwards, Milo O'Shea, Peter McRobbie, Camille Saviola, Dianne West, Tom Kubiak, James Lynch, Sydney A. Blake....Director Woody Allen...Screenplay Woody Allen.<br /><br />Among Woody Allen's best films are those in which he did not star in. His strongest talent is comedy and this film, released in 1985, is a romantic comedy with some thought-provoking and witty writing. Woody Allen's wife at the time, Mia Farrow, appeared in several of his films in the mid to late 80's and this one finds her in terrific acting shape. The time is the 30's, the Great Depression in New Jersey. Cecilia (Farrow) works as a waitress and is married to an abusive, domineering, alcoholic mess (Danny Aiello). To escape the depressing reality of her situation and that of America, she watches Hollywood movies. After repeatedly watching "The Purple Rose Of Cairo" an adventure comedy, the characters of the film (not the actors but the fictional characters they portray) come to life and the dashing minor character Tom Baxter (Jeff Daniels) comes off the big screen to tell Cecilia he has fallen in love with her. This provides Cecilia with a romantic dilemma. Tom is perfect but not real. Her husband is a monster but she can't seem to break free from him. Then along comes Gil Sheperd (also played by Daniels) the actor who portrays Tom Baxter who, flattered by Cecilia's admiration of his work, falls in love with her. Will she choose a perfect but fictional character who lives in perpetual celluloid fantasy over reality ? Ultimately, her decision costs her a lot and the ending, one which many critics and audiences didn't expect or care for, is one that seems to indicate we can't be happy living in fantasy or reality. This writing is the real winner here. Jeff Daniels has terrific lines, but especially as Gil Shepherd the actor who aspires to a greater career in Hollywood and not playing minor parts. The cast of characters who are in the film bicker with the fussy audiences in the theater and this is a most hilarious scene. In order for you to love this film and enjoy it, you have to suspend disbelief and forget about the absurdities of the plot. This film appears to be satirizing Hollywood and if you can laugh at that, then you're very appreciative of good subjective comedy. Rather than taking it seriously, enjoy the great writing and comedy style. Here, Woody Allen gives enough room for Mia Farrow to do her thing and Jeff Daniels, and they do have fine chemistry together. Plenty of hilarious moments. The scene in which the characters/cast on screen are arguing over the minor character's desertion ruining the rest of the movie's momentum is really good. This is also a movie about the magic of Hollywood and the glamour and romanticism/escapism of it. At the same time, it seems to be a sad social commentary on the fact we can't be happy with either too much reality or too much fantasy. But it's a light hearted movie and not nearly as "deep" or psychological as they say other Woody Allen movies are. This film doesn't explore human relationships. It is more about escapism and the allure of Old Hollywood on audiences at that time. I really enjoyed this movie for the script and for Mia Farrow who was a fine actress. And again, Woody Allen's writing and direction is also superb.