In the first and most memorable scene in this movie, 'Jackson', while wearing a hockey mask and meandering around the streets of London one night, and grabs a guy from behind and peels back the flesh from his face and then punches a hole into the guy's chest and then rips out his heart. Then, in the first of several changes in tone, we get annoying attempts at humour, where Jackson tries on cowboy hats in a store while still wearing his hockey mask, a cornball sequence where they go for a stroll on the beach one evening at sunset, while Jackson is still wearing his hockey mask(!) - is this supposed to be a comedy or a soap opera love story now? The movie changes tone drastically (again) and we plod through over a half an hour of crap about him and his blind girlfriend and their relationship problems, with Jackson walking around their bedroom wearing a pair of red underwear with 'Bad Boy' printed on them. *groan* Then if I remember correctly, towards the end we get a couple more semi gory killings, before Jackson collapses crying and screaming "No! No! No!" after seeing a marquee at a local movie theatre which reads something to the effect of "Coming soon: 'Unmasked part 26'" hinting that he still will never be able to stop killing, no matter how much he may want to, because the producers will keep bringing him back again and again in more sequels.<br /><br />That joke about the marquee listing the title of the next supposed sequel being called 'Unmasked part 26' probably didn't make sense in the alternate version called 'Hand of Death' either, and it does make for a really anticlimactic (and abrupt) ending. This looks like home movies filmed on the streets in and around London on a pocket change budget in a few days time, while it might have had a valid point about the unoriginality of Hollywood, it was mostly brought down by the non existent budget and the dramatic changes in tone throughout the movie. It just ends up looking like a hybrid between horror, soap opera romance, and the kind of diffused look of a soft core porno video. It's one of the most memorable flicks you're ever going to see, but that doesn't necessarily mean it's good.<br /><br />** out of ****