The trivia for "Poolhall Junkies" says that the two individuals behind the movie spent two weeks on the script and ten years trying to get the movie made. Well, I believe the two weeks on the script part because the script is utterly wretched, but I don't know about the ten years part because this movie rips off "Rounders" to a huge extent. In fact, "Poolhall Junkies" is just like "Rounders" minus the great acting, the interesting story, the realistic dialog and the production values. "Poolhall Junkies" is a juvenile fantasy film about hustling and pool that never approaches the heights or depths of hustling and poker as depicted in "Rounders".<br /><br />The story in "Poolhall Junkies" follows Johnny Doyle (Mars Callahan)a pool prodigy discovered and groomed by Joe (played by a slumming Chazz Palminteri) to be a pool hustler. Johnny double-crosses Joe for reasons that I'm not going to get into because they're stupid, and later has to face Joe's new hustler Brad (played by a slumming Rick Schroder) in a high-stakes game of pool, while suffering from a broken wrist given to him by an angry Joe. Okay, we all know what the ending will be in a film like this -- its the journey that makes it worthwhile, and "Poolhall Junkies" makes the journey painful and nausea inducing. Not even an appearance by Christopher Walken can save this Hindenburg of a movie.<br /><br />The stupidity of this movie especially shines through when Johnny is having some trouble in the climatic final game versus Brad, who is revealed to be the 13th ranked pro pool player in the US. That's when Nick (Rod Steiger), the grizzled old hustler who owns the pool hall the match is being played in, reassures Johnny by saying "Don't worry. I've seen his type many times before... they always crack under pressure. He can't last, so hang in there." Well, no. Since the guy is the 13th ranked player in the US he obviously doesn't crack under pressure because if he did then he obviously would be unable to make his living playing pool for high stakes.<br /><br />And why would a pro-player work for a two-bit hustler like Joe anyway? He could hustle for himself if he felt the need to make pocket money, there's nothing to be gained by hooking up with a small time criminal. The whole scenario makes absolutely no sense, except to the scriptwriters of "Poolhall Junkies". And the whole movie is full of idiotic sequences just like this one. Save your time and your eyes and watch "The Hustler" again if you're in the mood for a pool hall flick.