Kidulthood has a good first ten minutes, but after that the film falls a part and is no more then a 2 out of 5 star film.<br /><br />The plot of the film is it is set the day after the suicide of a 15-year-old girl from West London who was bullied by a group of girls and the evil Sam (Noel Clarke). It follows the lives of 3 boys and 2 girls who spend their day off doing drugs, having sex, use sex as currency and commit crimes, whilst also getting chased by Sam.<br /><br />The first 10 minutes looks at the bullying of Katie (Rebecca Martin), who is attacked constantly by the girls and Sam threats he would kill her if she told her parents. To me this was the most interesting put of the film. Afterwards I felt the film lost a lot of quality and highly unbelievable. Don't get me wrong, I know a minority of teenagers do live in a world of sex, violence, drugs, you know, rock and roll, but not the majority. The film does set out a very negative view of teenagers. As well, too much happens in one day, its trying to be the British version of the film Kids. If the film was spaced out for about a week or two it would be more believable. They are other things to think about, such as why are all the parents unaware of what going on in their children's lives, or it seems that everyone is pretty heartless seeing that a girl killed herself and all the kids think great, they get the day off. The most hardest aspect for me to believe in is the character of Sam. He is meant to a hard-nut bully who strikes fear in the whole school. Firstly, people like that don't stay at school to do A-Levels, they normally don't do well at GCSE level and just get low level work or at best do something at college. Secondly, I just thought he was a f**king loser. All he does is he picks on a 15-year-old girl and his crew is just a bunch of year 11 girls and stread lies that he slept with girls: yeah, real hard. At the climax of the film he attacks Trife (Aml Ameen), there at a party, everyone is just watching in fear, but come-on, if you hate him so much why don't a group of around thirty just kick the living crap out of him?<br /><br />Basically the film isn't well written. Some of the acting isn't good, a bit over the top, but Jamie Winstone and Rebecca Martin were decent. The film felt like a TV movie. The director, Menhaj Huda, tries too hard and ends up doing clichéd moves, like the flashbacks and the scene seeing Trife and Alisa (Red Madrell) drug and being upset at the same time. However, for it's small budget of £800,000 (very small for a film in London), it was professionally done. The soundtrack isn't too my liking, but its not the sort of music I am into. I know some people will like it.<br /><br />Basically I didn't think the film was that good, but they is an audience that will like it.