Nasty, gory, ultra-violent modern retelling of the Frankenstein story featuring a scientist, Victor Franks(Rhett Giles), relating how he got to be named a murder suspect of several missing associates who were working with him on a privately funded project concerning how nanotechnology *resurrects* dead cells in a quadriplegic patient with tragic results, to a psychiatric doctor, Walton(Thomas Downey)pressured by detectives in getting a confession. It seems that the nanobots surging through the subject, Bryce's(Joel Hebner) system have dangerous side-effects..Victor's homicidal fantasies, desires & rage, programmed into the computer that operates the nanobots are causing Bryce to act on them without control over his actions. All of Victor's associates are targets thanks to his feelings towards them in one way or another. Victor is confronted by Bryce who has become confused and disturbed by his doctor's fantasies desiring for them to end. Victor, knowing that the project would cease if everything was ended, shoots Bryce, claiming to his fellow surgeon, Hank(Jeff Denton)that it was suicide. Together Victor and Hank resurrect his body using their nanotechnology creating a monster after their experiments cause great physical damage, especially to Bryce's face. Bryce kills Hank and escapes from their lab, going on a killing spree acting out those very feelings Victor fantasized about leaving quite a death trail. When Victor's love, Elizabeth(Eliza Swenson)was one of the beast's victims, he will perform the same procedure on her, with another innocent being killed in the process. That innocent was a babysitter and the child she was looking after befriended the monster, helping the police semi-identify that what Victor was saying isn't just the insane ramblings of a very disturbed man.<br /><br />I certainly wouldn't say that this THE ASYLUM release adds anything interesting or fresh to the oft-told story of Frankenstein and his mad creation, but it does feature plenty of cheap thrills for gore-hounds such as limbs plucked from victim's bodies, a gruesome decapitation, Victor and Hank's bloody surgical experiments on Bryce's dead body, and a face is shot by the victim's own gun. We get a look into Victor and Liz's kinky sexual activity. But, the film basically is a slasher movie with the monster killing Victor's friends/associates in various ways. Nothing really original or exciting here unless you want to see some of the same gory violence one sees a lot in the slasher genre. I personally didn't think the characters were that interesting or the actors/actresses that portrayed them. Pretty cheap-looking as well. I'd say look elsewhere for better films based on Frankenstein.