The first episode of this series was a ham-fisted political statement with little merit. Viewing of the second episode ultimately left the same impression as the first. While initially promising, and a much better use of actors and a wider, more involving setting, this episode succumbed to the same preachy, heavy-handed political dogma that marred the first one. In fact, this episode was less subtle, more absurd and more strident in it's denouncement of US policy, as well as naive and unrealistic about other nations' motives.<br /><br />The setup is that an all-powerful force comes to Earth to stop warfare, promote understanding (via language translation), and ultimately create a peaceful world. Of course we are privy to this intent because we are told so by the plot, while characters in the story are given bits and pieces. This force eventually leads the world to the brink of destruction as it shuts down Earth's nuclear weapons in a sequential manner. The world's leaders must decide whether to attack the extraterrestrial forces or submit to being disarmed. A discussion about the motives of the ETs follows, are they benevolent or hiding ulterior motives? Who knows?<br /><br />Unfortunately, the denouement of this intriguing setup involves the use of a heavy hammer to pound the tired message that US imperialism ruined the world while Soviet and Chinese socialistic benevolence could save it. This is being stated by those who hate the US political administration and policy, and have a unrealistically rosy view of other big nations. These are the same individuals who would NOT get to make such a statement about their government but would be imprisoned if they were living in these other nations, or would be slaughtered for such statements if living under an extremist Islamic government.<br /><br />Are we to believe that both China and Russia would so graciously accept disarmament by a force seen as "God", an entity that both governments have denied for years? Is it realistic that a US President and his military staff would actually announce to these same nations what their plans of defense would be? Is it also realistic that an all-powerful extraterrestrial force would only be able to shut down nuclear arms in sequence rather than all at once? Isn't it sensible that the military staff would warn the President that the ET forces may have unkind motives? Did nobody here see the Twilight Zone episode, To Serve Man?<br /><br />The scene of the US President, of course played by the Smoking Man from X-files, being lectured by the Chinese "President" (who in reality is actually NOT a president) about humanity was laughable. Yes, we all know that China is a staunch defender of human rights. The Chinese have so much more freedom from tyranny than we, especially their protesting students. The only realistic moment in this whole scenario was when the French agree to capitulate to the ETs, and then that was made into a joke by having the US react to that with surprise. Forget this tripe and rent or buy a copy of The Day the Earth Stood Still, a better version of this idea.<br /><br />Note to the writers and producers of this series: We already know what happens when an extraterrestrial force arrives looking like a "God" and appears to be benevolent, and are welcomed. If you are curious about this, just research these terms = MAYAN CIVILIZATION and CONQUISTADORS