In a moment of self-vindication, Jamie Kennedy's love interest tells him that the most beautiful part about him is that he doesn't try to act like an adult. Therein lies the fault of Kickin' It Old School, its assumption that there is something virtuous in acting like a 13 year old, and an immature one at that, especially when it's writers are thirty something, and throwing their best material into the mix. To that end, Jamie Kennedy pulls out every trick in the book including fat jokes, gay jokes, racial slurs, bathroom humor, sex jokes, violence, Jewish jokes, retard jokes, a barrage of un-funny parodies of 80's wardrobe, dated colloquialisms, and over-played and un-original jokes resulting from a 20 year coma in a tragic attempt to mix back to the future, you got served, and some Adam Sandler movie. The abundant product placements and celebrity cameos makes it clear that Kennedy tried as hard to fund this film as he did to make it funny, calling in every favor and taking every opportunity to give a product unnecessary and often distracting camera time. For a film with so much corporate backing, one might expect camera and lighting work that was at least decent enough not to detract from an already lacking project. Luckily, the guest stars in the film didn't have much reputation to loose, since the product of their efforts is nothing short of a cataclysmic failure. Somewhere between a fat joke and a TiVo plug, there's an uninteresting and hackneyed plot about a desperate loser who has to do something big to win something back, imagine Happy Gilmore but with humor replaced with break dancing. This is what you'll get from Kennedy's Kickin' it Old School which features Kennedy as an adolescent boy in a 30-year-olds body who has just woken up from a 20 year coma to find out that the world has changed and has wholly passed him by. He must reunite his dance team and win a break dancing competition to pay off expensive medical bills and save his house, win the girl back from his evil nemesis, etc. etc. Perhaps Kennedy lost me when he started rubbing his fat best friends breasts, thankfully covered in a bra, but it seems that he often forgets which subplot he's working with, or rather what the main plot is altogether. If Kennedy seems convincing as a man with a 13-year-old mind, which he does not, it may be due to the fact that his humor never quite developed past a pubescent mentality. Maria Menunos seems oddly overwhelmed by a role that really should have been easy to pass off just on good looks. Kennedy himself is erratic, immature, and awkward with unkempt hair that parallels the movies and Kennedys lost sense of direction. Miguel Nunez Jr. revives the awkwardness that defeated Juana Man some years ago, a film with a plot and a performance about as disappointing as this one. Bobby Lee slips in and out of a stereotypical Asian parody that becomes MIT alum when he whips out his big vocabulary words, he is much more effective and funny in sketch comedy when he is no forced to extend his performance for more than five minutes. Michael Rosenbaum is refreshingly comedic in the light of his feeble co-stars. At one point in the film, Kennedy's character comments that his dancing crew is just a bunch of 30 year old guys acting like losers since they are stuck in a 13 year old mentality, This proves to be the most interesting moment in the film since the viewer is left to wonder whether the dialogue pertains to the plot only or is perhaps an introspective excursion for Kennedy himself. If it is, the 30 year old loser wins in the end, so Kenned can be seen as optimistic at best. If there seem to be too many suicide or death jokes in the movie, perhaps Kennedy is recognizing his failure and subtly suggesting something to the audience, were all ears. Ultimately, the audience is left wishing that Kennedy's character had not come out of a coma, or at least that they could be put into one for the remainder of the film.