ALL THE WAY (aka THE NIGHT WE CALLED IT A DAY) is a docudrama of sorts: it is based on a true incident that happened in Australia in 1974 and still is grumbled about today. Why this flimsy film was made in the first place seems only due to lasting resentments on the part of the Australians at the arrogant and crude behavior of Frank Sinatra when he made an appearance in Sydney during a world tour: he insulted the press, caused the labor unions to react in defiance by cordoning off his connection to the world outside his darkened hotel suite and demanded an apology from the star, an act that Sinatra refused to do.<br /><br />Writers Peter Clifton and Michael Thomas have attempted to make this boring incident viable by revealing the background events and characters surrounding the event. They have created Rod Blue (Joel Edgerton) as a failing show promoter who puts all his money and future into assuring the house for the concert. Australia loved Sinatra: this seemed his ticket to ride. Frank Sinatra (Dennis Hopper playing Dennis Hopper) arrives and one of the Press who alienates Sinatra is Rod's girl Hillary (Portia di Rossi) and when she asks inappropriate questions, Sinatra calls her a hooker and there begins the furor of the Aussies. The people are incensed at Sinatra's foul mouth and insensitivity and boycott the concert. The Labor Unions, representing the people of Australia, strike so that Sinatra is trapped in his hotel without light, water, food, room service, etc. Rod Blue's surefire scheme seems destined to fail.<br /><br />Sinatra is accompanied by his squad of hefty goons and his current paramour Barbara Marx (Melanie Griffith) and it is Barbara who intervenes and helps salvage the situation. She encourages Rod's mousy assistant Audrey (Rose Byrne) to believe in Rod whom she secretly loves and coerces Sinatra into negotiations with the people he has offended.Yes, it all works out in the end - Sinatra does his concert, Rod makes money and the audience appears satisfied and enthusiastic.<br /><br />Sound like a fairly boring film? Well, it is. It is partially saved by the entertainment of watching Hopper lip sync Sinatra songs as sung by Tom Burlinson, by Edgerton's commitment to make his hero Rod a credible human being, and by seeing Melanie Griffith looking terrific in beautiful gowns. Otherwise, despite the casts' best efforts, this is a forgettable film.