Teenage girls decide to have a slumber party which is interrupted(..to put it mildly)by a deranged madman whose mania derives from his sexual abuse as a child at the hands of his uncle.<br /><br />Third film in the series shows how tired the formula has become. Nothing at all fresh or original, even the killer's weapon of choice(..the cordless power drill)has become passé. The girls(..including bombshell Maria Ford)are all eye candy in their sleepover clothes, even if the actresses portraying them are unable to transcend their one-note characters. Basically, the film shows some of the girls having a beach hangout with their male friends from school. Juliette(Lulu Wilson)is enamored with a handsome blond, Kenny(Brittain Frye, in a dreadful performance)inviting him to the slumber party later that night..major catastrophic decision. The film presents two red herrings, a strange next door neighbor(Michael Harris) to Diane(Brandi Burkett), the one holding the slumber party, and an oddball staring at them at the beach(Yan Birch). I think no one will be fooled because it's just too obvious.<br /><br />But, the problem I have with this film(..despite the frustratingly questionable acts by the girls when up against the psychopath who locks them inside the house)is that the menace isn't the least bit convincing thanks in part to the performance of Frye. And, this guy is hit over the head by two lamps and a glass dish, is stabbed through the leg with a fireplace poker, with his eyes doused with floor cleaner, yet the girls still can not subdue him! There's one sequence which infuriated me..three girls, after the killer's eyes have been blinded, watch one of their own get her shirt ripped off and drilled to death without even attempting to help her! And, even when they do subdue him, the girls allow him to get free! You just want to pick up a heavy stone and clunk them over the heads! Anyway, the girls' boys are unable to stop him either, which makes this film hard to swallow because the killer isn't very imposing, except for his drill. The strength in numbers, even after they discover he's the wacko, fail to join forces to surround and cease him. They just disperse in all directions, with chaos as a result, the killer allowed to hunt each down, the drill doing some serious damage. Besides the drill boring through victims, there's little else that potent in the ultra-violence department. The murders are sadistic(..one victim's Achilles heel is sawed into with a chainsaw, another is stabbed in the chest by a "For Sale" sign post), but die-hard slasher fans have seen much worse. Maria Ford and Lulu Wilson shows us some flesh, so that's nice(..although Ford's mistreatment at the hands of the killer is pretty harsh). The motive for the killer to randomly kill women(..and the men who get in his way)is rather limp.