This movie is certainly not what you would call a well constructed Documentary film. It is very clear in it's motives and I guess succeeds in keeping the viewer entertained throughout the entire Movie. I wouldn't go so far as comparing it to Michael Moore's way of commenting through film, but it tends to take that direction at times.<br /><br />That being said, it is still, unfortunately, a Movie Americans should watch and take to heart. Because at the core of it all it's not about politics, the movie makers are (hopefully) not trying to berate Fox News for being Right Wing. What is important about this movie and what should be important to every American, left, right, center, black, white, Hispanic, is that this is the way Journalism is nowadays in the States. And that this kind of Journalism SHOULD NOT BE SUPPORTED. It doesn't matter if it's CNN or NBC or FOX. You DO NOT! invite Guests onto your show and then cut off their Microphones when they voice an opinion that is different to your own. You DO NOT! deny your studio guests the right to speak. You DO NOT! DO NOT! DO NOT! put your Opinion in front of the facts. Never ever ever ever... That is not Journalism, and deserves to be removed from the Air for all eternity. It is unprofessional, insensitive Manipulation of FACT! And let's face it, it's an Outrage. It makes me as a viewer feel like an idiot, because I am being pushed very unsubtly into an opinion which may not even be mine. And that should NEVER be the case on any Newsprogramm anywhere.<br /><br />The Problem with a film like this is that it raises too much emotion to be really taken seriously. The Left will cheer it to high heavens, even though it is neither a good film, nor an unbiased representation of facts. And the Right will see it as "Left-wing Propaganda Rubbish" and not see behind the facade through to the real issue at hand. If everyone would watch this movie, take a second to think about what they feel, and then take out of it the message that rings true to them, this movie will have had the effect a journalistic piece should have, even though I doubt that is the effect it was aiming at.<br /><br />I have been a supporter of our President for the entirety of his term, I share a lot of the views Fox News is trying to convey, heck sometimes I even share the same Opinion that O'Reilly does, and do think some of his guests should just shut up. But I wanna decide whether or not I switch of the news. But a journalist should have his pride, a journalist should show some class. It is NOT the Job of a News Corporation to make this decision for you.