David Hess virtually replays his "Last House on the Left" role in this very bad Italian exploitation movie. He plays a perverted greaseball named Alex who spends his free time raping and strangling women. At the garage where he works, some snotty rich kids pull in to get their car worked on and Alex finds himself drawn to the attractive Lisa (Annie Belle), so he decides to follow them to a party, dragging along his retarded co-worker Ricky (Giavanni Lombardo Radice who frequently uses the Anglacized name John Morghen). Well at the party, it doesn't take long for Alex's bad side to come out as he proceeds to terrorize the people there. Some of the men are beaten, all of the women are stripped naked at one point or another and Alex tries to coerce Ricky into joining in on the fun. During one rape scene, the female "victim" seems like she could care less about it. There is ample opportunity for the party guests to turn the tables on their attackers, but it takes them forever to do so. It's very annoying to watch, but then there's one of those out-of-left-field endings that's supposed to justify why everyone acts brain dead throughout the entire movie. Sorry but I didn't buy it!<br /><br />I have no clue why this movie has a favorable score and reviews! It's just plain inept! Mostly terrible acting, cringe-worthy dialogue, completely unimaginative directing, almost no plot to speak of and that final twist I mentioned is so contrived and unlikely you'll want to smash the DVD when it's over with. The pluses are the photography is decent, the main theme song is sort of creepy, a couple of the actors were tolerable (namely Christian Borromeo and Lorraine De Selle, the rest of the cast either overacted or acted with all the enthusiasm of a tree stump) and it piles on full nudity and sexual scenes. There is really not much in the way of gore, but a lot of violence or sexually violent scenarios that might make it uncomfortable for some people to watch. I just found is ridiculous and amateurish; too badly made to really be effective or offensive.