The tag-line of this movie reads: 'The Most Controversial Film You Will Ever See'. Well, not only was it controversial to the extent to which it was subsequently banned in cinemas throughout the UK 11 years ago, but the narrative and plot of the film was as ridiculous as it was distasteful. The idea of people getting turned on by car crashes didn't just sound stupid and lame but also sick. I for one am not the reader of the English newspaper the Daily Mail. I am not even middle class myself and so therefore, my views on this film in no way are based on or influenced by some tabloid press but rather from a personal point of view. Thus, what I dislike most about Crash however is that it has a stupid and inane premise and the fact that it was such a terrible film in itself.<br /><br />The plot of Crash revolved around a couple whose husband played by Spader ends up paralysed in a car accident. Of course this doesn't stop him and his wife from doing it with each other and even with other people. Spader's character has him having sex with Holly Hunter, in addition to this he even has a homo-erotic encounter with a guy (not that I have anything against homosexuality whatsoever that is). In fact, one of the main problems with Crash is the rather daft plot- its all about sex, sex and sustaining injuries and losing control of their libido by dangerous driving and that its all done in a cheap, tacky, demoralising and distasteful manner. When they have sex, they don't do it out of love for the other person but rather out of sexual arousal, out of desperation and out of weakness. They couldn't really give a toss about the other person's feelings, or the people they hurt. If anything those characters in Crash come across as being selfish, as well as perverse.<br /><br />Another problem is the actual point of this film- what message is this trying to evoke to its audience? What can the audience themselves take away from this viewing experience? And is there a point to all this? The answers to those questions can only be answered by those able enough to come up with meaningful answers. But unfortunately, they have not been addressed or tackled whatsoever within this movie.<br /><br />I failed to see how I could empathise with or feel remorse for the main characters. In fact, I utterly despised watching this film, that I was thinking as I was seeing the events take place, 'What the hell was that?'. I'm sorry but getting aroused at the expense of others and endangering others by getting involved in car collisions doesn't make for a good movie. It looked so tacky and on screen, the scenes would've offended those of whom were lucky enough to survive a car accident or two.<br /><br />There isn't really a moral to this silly story because let's face it, with a complex and controversial subject such as sex, in Crash with car accidents and people having sex with each other and other people, how on earth can there be one, for sure? David Croenberg has come up with some very strange concepts for films- hell, we often watch scenes in TV sitcoms and dramas for instance where the character is a novice at driving the car, or is attempting to drive the car and the other guy says something like 'imagine that this car is a woman and you're in a relationship with her/it' or some silly crap such as that. However, this one takes the biscuit as it has become a step too far. <br /><br />Crash was a terrible waste of a film and in Spader, Hunter and Arquette- of whom are three undeniably good actors, their talents were virtually unseen in this so-called diabolical 'porn' fest. For me, it was a nonsensical piece of garbage.