This movie is definitely soft-core porn. That's its downfall. Had this been a straight horror flick it would have been much better. Cinemax, HBO, and Showtime should pay attention to this. Notice:Soft-core horror flicks are bad. Worse than horror flicks. Worse than soft-core porn movies. If this movie is so bad, you may ask, how did I end up looking at it? Well, a friend popped it in, then left the room. You may think, to subject someone to this horrible movie, he's not that good a friend. The jury's still out on that verdict. The sexual interludes actually made this film worse. I was actually checking my watch during the sexual interludes. If this happens to you during a soft-core porn flick that's a very, very bad sign. In fact if this movie had just resorted to removing the sexual interludes I no doubt would have scored it higher than a 1. But I bet you're wondering, how do the sex scenes in a soft-core porn flick make it worse. If anything that's supposed to make it better, right? For Witchcraft XI, WRONG! If you haven't seen this flick yet and want to (though if you do, I feel very sorry for you, my friend), you may want to skip the next sentence and read on, cause I think I may be dropping a spoiler. This is why the sex scenes made this movie worse: In one scene one of the witches resurrects one of her sisters, then they proceed to get naked and have sex. I actually had to stop and say, "What the F***!" And I don't care if it is a soft-core horror flick, Spirits holding you down, pulling your shirt up, and raping you is never a good idea in a movie. Almost as bad as the tree-rape scene in whatever movie it was. I did have to admit that Officer Lutz deserved it more than anyone else, a payback so to speak for her being such a Queen C*nt throughout the movie. And with those hoish clothes she wore, more suited to a streetwalker than a police officer, I kind of had the feeling something sick like that would happen. I mean, when the first scene of a movie is a sex scene, you know two things. 1. That it's a soft-core porn flick. 2. That it's gonna be one good movie. Well, I was right about the first thing, but horribly, horribly wrong about the second. If you value a critic's opinion (and most people don't), then listen to what I have to say. I've seen plenty of horror flicks and plenty of soft-core porn flicks as well. If you're a fan of either (I happen to be a fan of both), avoid Witchcraft XI (and the other Witchcraft movies if they're any bit as bad as this embarrassment) like it's a person with the flu and you haven't had your flu shots. It's that bad. If you see this movie, I promise you will regret it.