tonight is the last e.r. or should i say the last hurray for Dr. carter, YES THERE HAS BEEN A LOT OF PROMOTING ON N.B.C. and yes it all surrounds Dr carter or does it, after watching the last E.R. i am sort of disappointed it had it high points and it had the unanswered questions , and the hope that Dr Ross will return it did not happen and today half the women in the USA that love clooney are in despair , to say i hate e.r. is not true i actually enjoyed several episodes thru the years , among them the rescue scene where Dr Ross saves the boy, Dr Greene last episode,and this years the recurring dream,and yes i am a big fan of Dr. morris, ,but the thing i hate this show is it wears thin , one of my least favorite character is Dr carter , he is a rich ,preppy type doctor who had so little in common with the people this show is usually about , .i also hate the fact the writers etc preach to us in every show they said on the recap they never did well they are wrong watch the old shows and see if they are not pushing an agenda ,it always came with a point if you really looked closely, while some like that i don't like Hollywood telling me what to think.what to feel!!<br /><br />probably the most obviously thing is as the years have past by the talent level has decreased the story lines have became stale,dry and not interesting .the days of George clooney and Anthony Edwards and Juliana margulies are well over , now we have the girl in bend it like beck-ham who tried but really is not that great a character or the girl out of broke back mountain and yes john stamos -do you call that star power? stamos should be playing drums for the beach boys not acting!!!well most of the folks i know who loved e.r. will tell you the truth it lost a lot in the past few years . conclusion THANKS TO N.B.C. for removing E.R. from life-support and letting it go peacefully , please no 2 hour movies later let it R.I.P. goodbye E.R.as for the very last episode all i talked with were let down felt empty as if they had watch 2 hours of almost good TV but then had it jerked away at the last seconds goodbye e.r.