Well, I didn't really expect much from this film but I found myself watching it all the way through. The whole feel of the film is a culmination of a typical Conan rip-off and the Hercules TV series that Kevin Sorbo starred in, and as much as he tries old Kev will always be Hercules. Though I have to say, there are a few features to this film that rescue it to just above watchable. Number one being the soundtrack, not only is there the typical orchestral score behind every dramatic scene and/or plot revelation but we are actually treated to some rock music during the occasional fight scenes. Now, being a man who believes that the soundtrack is integral to any great movie (Come on, you all remember the theme/soundtrack to all your favourite films) I felt uplifted to hear some heavy guitar music over the fights. What a great idea, it works well and I wish we'd hear more of it in bigger Hollywood productions. But on to the rest of the film. Performances - average to just above average. A little disappointed with Tia Carrere but to be honest I doubt there was much more she could have done in the role. Maybe someone else would have been better for the job. Everyone else was OK except for Thomas Ian Griffith who absolutely blew me away. To start I was kind of annoyed with his character but as he got more and more evil I found his time on screen to be entertaining. His lines and performance were delivered perfectly, best performance in the film. There were some OK-to-low scale special effects in this but nothing that can't be forgiven on something of this calibre. Most of the fight scenes I found to be very entertaining making you follow each swing of the blade/axe, and they were carried through the film by the rock music I mentioned earlier. Better fights that I expected. Lastly but not least, even for a fantasy film the costumes were just bizarre and I think I should leave it there. The less said about them the better.<br /><br />Overall, a surprisingly entertaining movie but I wouldn't recommend you to go out and buy it unless you are a fantasy junkie or really enjoy seeing Kevin Sorbo on screen a lot.