I watched this movie for two reasons--Robert Mitchum and Zachary Scott. Now for anyone who loves classic Hollywood films, there's really no reason to explain in depth my reason to watch a Mitchum film--after all, he's Robert freakin' Mitchum--a wonderful actor who made everything (even crap) quite watchable. As for Zachary Scott, while he's far from a household name, I loved how slimy he could be--and when I read he was playing a guy who's selling guns to get rich during the Mexican Civil War of the 1910s, it sounded like a role PERFECTLY suited for him. Sadly, however, both actors were pretty limp here--particularly Scott. And, on top of that, the writing really was pretty sad.<br /><br />The film starts with Scott making a deal with the Federales (troops of the Mexican government). His wife (Ursula Thiess) obviously doesn't like him very much and seems to be biding her time with him. Robert Mitchum, another American, wanders in--apparently to scout out the situation. Soon, he leaves and walks right into a nearby battle between the Federales and the Revolutionaries. Now this part of the movie is really, really dumb. Seeing Mitchum casually strolling about the town with thousands of whizzing bullets flying about was really silly. How could he avoid the bullets?! I guess Mitchum must have been wearing bullet-repellent underwear. In a fit of boredom (or perhaps it was because the bullets broke his bottle of booze), Mitchum decides to stop merely watching the fighting from his balcony and tosses out a few grenades--endearing him to the Revolutionary leader (Gilbert Roland).<br /><br />A bit later, Mitchum and Roland hit on a scheme to kidnap Scott and his sultry little Wiener Schnitzel (Thiess). At this point, you'd think the film was going to improve following the dopey scene where Mitchum is taking a stroll through a war zone, but it actually will eventually lead to the film completely falling apart for me. Mitchum is supposed to be a self-centered mercenary....yet he throws it all away to spare Scott's wife from being killed. This made no sense at all, nor did Roland's decision NOT to shoot Mitchum in the face for doing this (in direct opposition to his orders). And the last portion of the film was pretty much all action and by then I was ready for the next film! By the way, while Miss Thiess is NOT a household name and only made a few American films, this German actress caught Robert Taylor's eye and they married--and remained married until his death in the late 1960s.