The fact that the maker of this film is used to making documentaries should have ABSOLUTELY NO BEARING on this particular film. As many other comments show, there are a ton of errors. In my opinion, the largest is calling this a "docudrama" because it is patently NOT true in almost every aspect. The Marines that this film pretends to portray were acquitted of all charges, but the film doesn't take this into account as it was produced prior to the situation being resolved. It totally ignores this fact and portrays the Marines as sloppy, paranoid hotheads with no organization or training. The Marines should be able to sue this film for slander. It would be one thing if this film were advertised as COMPLETE fiction, but they sell you a bill of goods when they make the claim that it is "based on actual events". The only "actual events" it is based on is the fact that a war is going on in Iraq and that there is actually a town named Haditha. Beyond that, it is reaching. This is the first film I have ever felt the need to comment on and I am doing so because I was completely offended by the portrayal of the Marines and I want prospective viewers to be aware. I also don't believe anyone involved with this film should make another dime from slandering our service men in this way. To profit from that is completely reprehensible. I have never had the privilege of serving but I know men who have served and men who still do and I pray they never have to bear witness to a movie such as this. These men do an honorable job and to portray them in this light is simply pissing on the freedom that they purchase for us with their blood. To leave any audience with the impression that this chain of events was not only possible but did happen is most irresponsible. I have never seen this man's documentaries and never will. If he is willing to not tell the whole story in this account while claiming it is based on actual events, then I can not trust him to tell the truth in his documentaries. Beyond that, I don't think it's artistic to make a fictional film in this shaky documentary style. Some call it "raw". I call it unfinished and shoddily put together. The production of this film could have been handled with a hand-held video camera and entry level editing software. Apparently he put just as little time into production as he put into researching the facts. This film goes to show that in film making, you really can get away with anything.