When I first heard about this movie I knew right off the bat it would be hilariously bad. Think about it...first off it's made by Cannon, one of the most incompetent movie companies of all time (just about 95% of all the movies they ever made were laughably bad). Second, the hero of the story is none other than Miles O'Keefe himself wearing a big dopey blonde wig that makes him look more girlie than tough. Then to top it all off we have Sean Connery in a role he'd probably rather forget as the "Green Knight", but he looks more like a Christmas decoration then an actual magical knight. Not only is he covered from head to toe in green glitter, but he has pieces of holly stuck to his head! Throw all these into a blender and you have a really horrible unintentionally funny film.<br /><br />The story revolves around Sean Connery challenging all the knights at a particularly wimp-filled castle to use his own axe to chop off his head. The deal is they get one blow to chop Sean's head off, but if they don't succeed he in turn gets to take a chop at their head. At first none of the knights are willing to accept his challenge, but then when the King gets so frustrated at his weak kingdom and offers to accept Sean's deal himself, the brave Miles O'Keefe jumps in and accepts the challenge instead! The King is so proud he makes the young Miles O'Keefe an instant knight! What happens next is ridiculous. O'Keefe takes his swing and chops Sean's head clean off...but then a really fake Sean head laying on the floor is then seen telling his body to come and pick up his head. The headless body walks over to the head, picks it up, and puts it back on his neck. Miles O'Keefe, realizing that he's just been fooled by a magical knight into giving up his own life, prepares to have his own head chopped off in return. However, Sean Connery decides that he will grant the young O'Keefe one more year to live his life before he will chop off his head. He also gives O'Keefe a really boring riddle that if he solves in that year, his life will be spared.<br /><br />The rest of the movie revolves around Miles O'Keefe in a fake crappy stiff armor outfit traveling around the countryside trying to solve the riddle, fighting danger every step of the way. There are not only tons of cheesy battles, but movie mistakes galore and plot holes aplenty. If you're a bad movie fan then definitely check this one out. You'll be happy you did.