Producers of Vaastu-Shastra warns: it you watch this film we shall not be responsible means that if you regret after watching it, blame it yourself as we already warned you. Final word, watch it at your own risk.<br /><br />Nothing much in the name of story-a couple, writer-husband (why he is shown a writer? don't know) and doctor-wife (why is she a doctor-don't know ?) with their little son and a sister-in-law comes to stay at a deserted house in the middle of a jungle. Perfect setting for chills and thrills. Why they need to come down to a place 20 km away from city, again don't know ? Now that house is haunted. Ghosts make frequent visits and some befriends the little boy, why only boy, don't know ? First the boy's evil-intentioned governess gets killed by ghosts. Later, Sister-in-law's boyfriend gets killed by ghosts and so is sister, when they are secretly mating in the house. In the end, an entire force of all dead people (Ghosts) appears to kill all those who are alive. Now if sole intention of the Ghosts is to kill the inhabitants of that house then why they waited till 2 hours of movie's running time, and get to work only in the climax. That's not all. There is even an insane man (Rajpal Yadav, now when is the last he played a sane character ?) who continuously warns about haunted house but is ignored by all. Why this character is needed, don't' know ? There is a ghostly tennis ball who does things on its own but later where it vanishes nobody knows ? For horror factor, there are some scary faces with loads of heavy makeup and lighting, but that's about it. <br /><br />The biggest suspense in the film is why it is named Vaastu-shastra, which you will not able to crack even when the film is over. Immensely talented debutant director Saurabh Usha Narang (see his episodes of Haqeeqat on Sahara One TV) and even the cameraman Sachin K Krishn not able to erect a better narrative on this deadly (or dead) plot. Merely, a noisy sound track (Ajay Kumar-Kunal Mehta) and a haunting score (Amar Mohile) can't hold the audience for about 2.10 hrs. The content level is low in the film. Performances just passes muster. There are no songs in the film and they are not needed also.<br /><br />At one place you find some relevance, when you see the name of production company The Factory. Indeed it is an assembly line product on the lines of previous Raat, Bhoot, Darna Mana Hai etc.<br /><br />Read another warning from producers- if Bhoot scared you, this one kill you ? Well Bhoot definitely scare never mind if the narrative is thin but is properly packed with all gimmicks of a horror flick but this one sorry to say kills only your expectations but yes it might kill your factory Mr. Producer if you continuously churn out such flicks. Now this is a warning from a concerned viewer, are you listening ?