From the Salkinds brothers, the same producers of "Superman" saga, comes the first and, for the moment, last adventure of the new heroine coming from DC comics: was Supergirl: the Superman's cousin. The movie is one of the worst superhero's pictures never made; director Jeannot Szwarc give very bad work, as on the hand we would expect from a subscriber to the flop like he. The screenplay by David Odell is really silly and campy; the history is absurd and full of holes. The plot: Kara(Helen Slater)is a blond young girl from Argo city. Argo is a fragment of the planet Krypton in "innerspace"; the survivor Community is powered by the Omega Hedron, a spherical powerful object invented by city's founder Zaltar(Peter O'Toole). Superman's cousin Kara is shown by Zaltar how to use Omegahedron to help inspire her art. But an insect she animates causes chaos and accidentally sucks the Omegahedron down a warp vortex. The magical sphere end up on Earth and falls into the clutches of a evil witch Faye Dunaway....sorry Selena(played by Faye Dunaway). Selena is a second-rate sorceress that lives in a converted amusement park with her sidekick Bianca(Brenda Vaccaro); the witch is studying black magic with the aid of her old boyfriend Nigel(Peter Cook); Nigel is a local math teacher and warlock. The eccentric Selena really is little more than a clumsy charlatan but she is really crazy and megalomaniac; her dream is nothing less than world domination! While Selena plans to use the sphere's powers to rule the world; Kara steals an experimental spaceship and on Earth, becoming Supergirl: the girl of steal; now the long-blond-tressed Kara enrolls in a girl-school as a brunette using the name Linda Lee, while searching for the Omegahedron in her spare time wearing the familiar costume of her cousin Superman. Selena is at that age where she's not the spring chicken; she develops lust for the handsome school gardener Ethan and spikes his beer with a potion that will make him fall for the first woman he sees and of course this women is Supergirl; she and Selena come into conflict. In the final crash the witch invoking the Burundi wand, she screams "Power of Shadow... Appear!" and she summons a huge demon. "Power of Shadow... Destroy her!" Flying up to confront the demon, Supergirl is captured in its grasp and it starts crushing her. Using her amazing strength, Supergirl frees herself from the demon and using her super-speed, Supergirl circles Selena and the wind she creates lifts Selena before the demon; Supergirl summons her inner strength to turn the tables and make the demon eat witch. Magically, the demon with her bore food and Bianca all fade away through the mirror to the Phantom Zone. Of course good triumphs over evil and Kara returns to Argo City with the Omegahedron. The movie's special effects aren't bad and the Jerry Goldsmith's score is wonderful. The majors guilty of this box office flop are Szwarc and Odell but the acting is another problem for this movie although the all-star cast. Nineteen year-old Helen Slater in her first film appearance is a perfect choice as Supergirl; she looked like she had jumped right out of the pages of the comic books for Supergirl, she's charming rather than sexy, graceful and convincing in the flying scenes with her little costume and her nice blonde hair. Supporting cast members include the completely wasted Peter Cook, the annoying Brenda Vacarro, a embarrassed Mia Farrow, as Kara's mother, the very attractive Hart Bochner that was quite good under trying circumstances and Peter O'Toole, who's always fun to watch when he overacts. All obviously were phoning it in for the paycheck. Faye Dunaway's acting is the worst in the movie. She is mostly dreadful as the wicked would-be witch Selena, it certainly wasn't all Faye Dunaway's fault, since she just got stuck with a terribly written character, but she was over-the-top hamming and overplays outrageously. Her character is idiot, boring and silly and Dunaway chews her ridiculous lines with unjustified gusto because her Selena remains the lamest and worst of all the villains from the Superman-related movies. Selena was the baddest evil witch of all time, with scenery-chewing of unimaginable proportions notwithstanding this Dunaway vamps like a enormous peacock but one thing is sure that she is not a charming and imperious witch like the glamorous Anjelica Huston in movie The Witches. Dunaway is really ungraceful and unattractive as a grotesquely middle-aged women that know some magic, gesture wildly, utter some made-up 'abracadabra' bullshit. She looks awful like a true classic witch from tales; with horrid red curly wig and a make-up that make her features coarse and more vulgar she seems a man in drag . But really Dunaway is the only reason for watch this movie because her camping is so over-the-top and her appearance is so bad than she becomes fascinating to watch in its terribleness. She likes herself in a way very narcissistic; I kept waiting for her performance to finally says -I ready for my close-up Mr. Demille-. But truly even cheeky Brenda Vaccaro as her accomplice Bianca reacts with comically exaggerated expressions over Faye's plans for world domination and her defines a horrid human being. There are few moments where Dunaway is really really ridiculous: when she was trying painfully to seduce the muscle-man Etahn; when she was prepare a love-potion with a spider and a hazel's shell but especially in the final when she rolls one's eyes and make terrible smirks and laughs. After her tour-de-force of overacting, her irritating wry faces and ways affected poor Dunaway end up really badly: a horrid monster bites evil Faye's head off. It's a just punishment for Dunaway's crimes against humanity, acting and fashion and it's a great relief for the audience.