Just watched this tonight, the lass is at work, the kid is in bed... was bored so stuck it on, and why not eh? wasn't expecting a massive amount from this movie tbh - in fact i only got it coz i have been reverting back to my childhood days lately and have fancied a bit of horror again (i grew up on horror) and the added mushroom factor only poured fuel on the the fire - horror/scary things in general is last thing u want when ur high on that shat... anyway, turned off lights and got settled, trying to give it a chance..<br /><br />Opening scenes were good i thought, trying to get in early shocks and jumps with the running over of the cow (or what ever that was, a deer?), the 1st sights of the location was promising, big scary woods, nice open fields, a stream etc... Party time? And then it started to go wrong and the horror clichés were unleashed.. The creepy stories around the camp fire - which although are the starting point for the horror, like in 99% of horror movies, it all starts with the telling of a story.. but it is getting tiresome and the story itself lacks any horror merit i think.. It is an obvious laziness of the writers. No imagination! The idea of this movie could of been great, a real future cult classic if it was done correctly.. but it wasn't done right! The horror was weak, the script was weak, the characters were to 'teen movie' what ever happened to good adult horror? all the horror i see now seems to be aimed at teens - and its boring! To sum it up, the only saving grace to this movie was the half decent acting, some of the camera work was well done - nice moving shots through the woods.. And although most of the reviewers here say the twist was obvious and they got it in the 1st 20-30 mins.... Well, i got it - but only figured it out maybe 10-15 mins b4 they dropped it - maybe just a slow night for me.<br /><br />Im afraid Horror as a genre is dead - it is all just commercialized like with everything else now - they get a good idea and cut/trim/change it to fit a mass audience and i don't like that.. They should be aiming to please the few that care, not the masses that don't really have an opinion either way.<br /><br />Anyway, forget this movie - it was a boring waste of time after 15 mins or so and never gets any better! a talking cow? f off! Go stick in a classic if u wanna watch some good horror - the shining or the omen. watch how the professionals do it haha.