I saw this movie tonight. Never have left comment here but feel compelled to warn you all before wasting your money in cinema - AVOID! I'm Irish and this film was made by Irish people, but never have I been so insulted by such deedley-i-isms, or laughed so hard at the completely rubbish and regurgitated story that they peddle here. Absolute load of tosh - stolen sequences from at least 10 different films, not the slightest bit scary or ironic. They were too cheap to spend any money on gore so decided to go for the 'unseen horror' option. The film actually got booed in the cinema as the end credits rolled, by not just me, but half the audience. Breathnach should be ashamed of himself, never show this film in Ireland again, and stay well away from the horror genre. Shame on Bord Scannan na hEireann for giving him the money, but it just goes to show what an old boys club the 'Irish Film Industry' actually is. *response to 'Johnofgod'* I do not work anywhere near the entertainment industry, and have as such no grudge to carry against anyone therein. In fact I'm a science student, and have no desire to pick up a movie camera. I am however a fan of cinema and horror movies and take offense when a 'popular' director picks a 'popular' genre and makes a total pigs ear out of it, when I then in turn am expected to shell out premium prices for someone else's vanity and back-clapping. I am quite certain also that the good money thrown after bad towards salaries, production and marketing on this one, could have funded 5 superior new hopefuls with the aim of in fact igniting a revival in the 'Industry' and saving the rest of us from the embarrassing drivel we got. I saw the film as the surprise film at the Horrorthon in the IFI, and certainly did not choose to see it as such. Given the surprise film from previous years, this one certainly was a surprise, and I'll be hard pressed to attend again next year. I don't know if you were there but certainly the boos I heard were not phantomised. I am entitled however to express my opinion of the film on this opinion page for the film, and given the other comments I do not think I am alone in my musings. Your unashamed vitriol towards my comments only serves to make me think that I have possibly hit a nerve with your own misgivings towards an 'industry' within which you are vaguely 'un/employed'.