Hey there everyone,<br /><br />"live flesh" is one of those fine movies which go through your mind days after the movie. Like all Almodovar's movies, this one also features desperate characters who cope with loneliness. Picture Victor, a young street kid who falls in love with a ravishingly beautiful woman (The Italian Francesca Neri) after a one night stand in a disco bathroom. He calls her and she rejects him in a mean, cold hearted way. <br /><br />What Victor doesn't know, is that Elena is actually a drug addict. Victor goes to her apartment for an explanation. There he gets entangled in a weird shooting accident with two cops, which leaves him in jail for seven years and a cop paralyzed. This cop (a young Javier Bardem) becomes a paralympics star and weds Elena. After his jail time Victor returns for Elena, but things have changed. Both David and Elena fear Victor, but he has no bad intentions. Even though Victor does try to get mingled back into the life of his former love. Victor also becomes involved with the other cop's (Sancho) wife and she (Clara) starts to fall in love with him. Victor and Clara make out constantly, but Victor stays in love with Elena. He finally confronts Elena about the injustices done to him in the past and her crucial role in it. He knows to seduce her for a one night and vows to never see her again. He dumps Clara later on, leaving her in tears. In agony she finally has to courage to escape her drunken husbands and his domestic beatings. Sancho (after a tip from jealous David) and Clara meet each other at Victor's house, which again leads to a shoot out. This time Victor escapes painful consequences. Elena runs to the house, hearing gunshots and screams out her love for Victor. Victor and Elena are reunited after 7 years and get a baby. This time things will turn out right for Victor. Spain has become a free country and his son will have a better future. <br /><br />In all of Almodovar's movies the characters are nice to watch (both in acting and appearance). The color use is always good and adds to the atmosphere of an intimate story. And if you don't like the story... Just check out the movie pure for the beautiful blue eyes of Francesca Neri. They express both a beautiful soul and an agonizing spirit.