'Carne Trémula' is another good film from Spanish director Pedro Almodóvar. It comes before his great films 'Todo Sobre Mi Madre' and 'Hable Con Ella', both more mature than his earlier films, and this film is the beginning of the grown-up Almodóvar. It tells the story of five people with lives that cross paths from time to time. The film starts with Víctor (Liberto Rabal), who has fallen in love with a girl he has only seen once. Her name is Elena (Francesca Neri). She does not remember him, so when he shows up at her house she takes a gun and forces him out of the place. He does not go and because the gun goes off the police arrives a couple of minutes later. Two detectives arrive, David (Javier Bardem) and Sancho (José Sancho). They have issues, since Sancho's wife Clara (Ángela Molina) cheats on him, probably with David. Sancho got in a struggle with Víctor, a gun goes off.<br /><br />Four years later David, hit by the bullet, is in a wheelchair and married to Elena. Víctor is released from jail and he has not forgotten about the events years earlier. To tell you what happens would spoil a lot of things since Almodóvar is a master with surprises here. Even in single scenes he makes you think one thing is going to happen and the exact opposite does. It is kind of brilliant.<br /><br />'Carne Trémula' is a film that plays with genres, like Almodóvar's earlier films such as 'Mujeres al Borde de un Ataque de Nervios' and 'Tacones Lejanos'. It is a comedy, a drama, a detective, a mystery, a romance. In some single scenes it also shows other genres. When the two detectives climb a stairs early in the film there is a typical film noir shot, with shadows and a certain camera movement. Things like this add a lot of fun to the film.<br /><br />Besides this it is also a very well-acted film, especially by the very dependable Bardem. Alfonso Beato provides the film with a gorgeous cinematography and Alberto Iglesias, like always, comes with a score that is beautiful on its own, but also fitting the film in a perfect way. If you like Almodóvar you will definitely like this one, but even if you normally don't there is a good chance this will change your opinion.