It seems that while I was growing up, my best friend and I could not have a sleepover or a slumber party without watching "Gidget" and "Grease". We rented the former one day and we loved it instantly, slightly dated as it is. We totally identified with Gidget (the adorable Sandra Dee, God rest her soul), who summed up the innocence and longing of teenage love. Our favorite lines were, "Yeah, but what if the young man doesn't know you're alive?" and, " 'To be a real woman is to bring out the best in a man.' Tell that to the boys today." We, of course, couldn't help but remark, "More like today!" It's easy to see why this film inspired so many beach movies of the 60s. We found it particularly amusing how protective and neurotic Gidget's father (Arthur O'Connell) was, and how he wanted her to date suitable college boys. And James Darren was so great as Moondoggie, and he even got to croon a great love tune! It's priceless when Gidget gets one of the surf boys, Hot Shot, to help her make Moondoggie jealous, and Hot Shot backs out of their deal, and Moondoggie steps up to the plate, completely unaware that he was the intended target. Gidget then pretends that it's the Big Kahuna (a young, buff, and tanned Cliff Robertson) she's out to get, and ends up getting in a little deeper than she planned to.<br /><br />Of course, it all works out in the end. But this movie is a treasure. Now that it's available on DVD, so many people can enjoy it. It takes you back to a simpler time, but at the same moment you can identify with the characters. You may even want to learn how to surf! Best of all, it is a great tribute to Sandra Dee, in her most famous role. "Gidget" is one in a million!<br /><br />The DVD: While I'm glad I found these great movies in a DVD collection, the formats are no different than the pan and scan VHS tapes that have been in circulation for so long. The original film, in particular, suffers. At least TCM airs it in widescreen, and then the color looks crisp, clear and glorious. Columbia has done the same injustice to countless vintage gems, such as "The Trouble With Angels" and its sequel, "Where Angels Go Trouble Follows". Viewers had to clamor for "Tess" to be released in widescreen format, a special edition, but much of the film's condition had not been cleaned up - lines across the screen, hissy sound. Columbia also has an annoying habit for not including extras, except for some theatrical trailers; a few classic films (Gilda, The Lady From Shanghai, etc) are lucky to have a featurette or a commentary. <br /><br />These movies and their stars deserve a much better reissuing and presentation on DVD than they have been given - film restoration is important in preserving film history. I am holding out hope that Sony will rerelease the Gidget films and some of the aforementioned in better quality conditions someday, but my hair might be grey by then. Here's a prayer that Sandra Dee's other great teen movie classic from 1959, "A Summer Place" (through Warner Brothers) due for a DVD release in a few days as of this writing, will be restored to widescreen, recapturing its theatrical glory that enchanted and captivated moviegoers way back when.