Amar , Akbar, Anthony whenever I hear any of those three names I think of one of the greatest movies I've seen. I'm 15 minutes into the movie and I'm already in tears, I couldn't believe a movie like this had so much impact at the first 15-20 minutes. This movie was all around a good movie and is a must see. It starts out with a poor male & female who have three children and the poor man is in trouble seeking out some way to get money for his wife's sickness plus food for his children. When he goes to Robert he begs and the emotion he put into that movie was so heavy you could feel the pain the poor man was going trough. Robert was actual one of those guys that made me say "Just kill this guy already". Usually I like negative rolls and support the negative rolls but Robert was doing a amazing job. The poor man escapes from the sharp claws from Robert he leaves with a car which was filled with gold. He stops by his house to find a "sucide" letter from his wife so he takes his kids and drives off to somewhere then put's his kids in some random park. The bad guys start chasing him so Robert tries to lose em but get's tied up in a car accident which he survived I must say that was a very fake part in the movie but every movie has a flaw eh? Oh well anyways he finds the gold which surprisingly isn't burned and runs around the street with it trying to avoid the cops. He goes to the park to see that his kids are nowhere to be found he starts yelling Aman..? He dosen't yell the other two names so it's him screaming AMAN! Akbar was raised by a Muslim by the time he found the child he was going to drive home but to see Akbar's mom in the street then the Muslim guy takes her to her home but she's blind! She has no idea she is in present with one of her kids. Anthony faints at a local church and Amar was found by a police officer. All three of them grew up with pride of there religion so here we are somewhat 20 years later.<br /><br />The mom loses bunch of blood then is rushed to her hospital but what the kids don't know is that they are brothers and they really don't know there real mother nor does the mother know her kids due to her being blind. So Amar, Akbar , and Anthony all end up at the same place in the hospital because they have the same blood type of there mother(NO DUH!!!) so they donate blood all to there mom then here comes the opening cerdits with a very touching song. We get to the journey of the three young men and we find out that Akbar & Anthony are very close(Well at least in the first half) so anyways Anthony always refers to the old woman as his mother and so do the other two I think. Anthony also calls Akbar & Amar as his brothers but let's get back to there real dad it seems his the evil guy now LMFAO! But Robert get's away with bunch of gold and Anthony somehow helps him out for a little bit in the movie but what happens? Will Robert regain control of money and power again? Will Amar, Akbar, Anthony find the truth? Will the mom ever be able to see her children again? Watch the blockbuster to find out.<br /><br />Also the girl who fell in love with Amar did horrible acting at first she said she stole money because there family was poor but she looked like she was giving false information(worst crying in a movie I've seen) I wouldn't believe her no matter what but it turns out she told the truth. I was shocked..