By the time I was born Transformers G1 was already almost to a close and the movie had come out just a couple of years previous. Needless to say I was born a little too late to catch Tranformers at the height of their hay day. Those born around the same time as me grew up primarily with Beast Wars and reruns of G1 which by that time had gone into syndication. Heck I even enjoyed Beast Machines to some extent. Sure it wasn't what its predecessor was but hell I enjoyed it more than this crap. Plus the toys were great fun! The main story follows three kids who somehow stumble upon an artifact that activates a small robot later to be revealed as a mini-con. This sends out a beam that summons the Autobots and their long time enemies the Decepticons to earth. By the time this show came out I was already a teenager and had long since pushed Transformers to the back of my memory. Then one day I turn on Fox/Kids, now spiraling into mediocrity, and saw Robots in Disguise. I was a fan of anime and I thought since when did this start being animated by the Japanese? I watched maybe one episode and was sickened to my stomach.<br /><br />I thought okay maybe this is just a one time thing. I was wrong. Shortly after that ended Armada started coming on Toonami. I liked Toonami a lot back then only to once again discover another Transformers Anime series. From that day forth I vowed to never watch another Transformers episode again post Beast Machines. Once again this includes some annoying kids. Why the heck are they around don't they know its taking away from their toy sales? Plus they added in the concept of the mini-con. As it is now common practice to add the elements of collecting things and battling them in children's anime this is no different. Okay so why do I care if the Decepticons get the mini-cons why do I care if any of the Autobots die? Believe me you have no reason to care about any of these things. The animation quality is commonly found in the lesser anime like Pokemon and Yugi-Oh and what do ya know this show is pretty much like Pokemon with robots. Those kids I just kept wishing the Autobots or Decepticons would step on them cause I hated them so much! Every episode centers around them and their problems that just happen to involve robots. The Autobots serve more as devices to help them through their lives by teaching them things about themselves that they had deep within them. What does this mean? Boooooorrrriiiiiiiinnnnnnnng! They were supposed to be helping the Autobots instead of the Autobots helping them. It should have been all about the Autobot's conflict on earth and they just so happened to have humans helping in their fight.<br /><br />No instead all conflicts are mostly resolved by those damn kids. The writing was terrible, the animation was terrible, and by anime standards this is just awful. If you are a true Transformers fan then stay away from this like the plague. I know some people don't like Beast Machines but come on folks it had way more merit than this.