You know, I would be just as content if they took the film used for the games, reditted it and added modern special effects and released it into theaters. Hell I liked Mark Hamil as Blair better than Skywalker. He was cool and support from Maniac played by Tom Wilson (Biff Back to the Future) you can't beat that. I was so thrilled to see the movie coming out, accepting that it is the original story from the first game so Blair would be young enough to be played by someone like Freddie Prinz Jr. I was horrified to the inaccuracies of the movie. First off, Admiral Tolwyn?! NO! He was only Captain at the time and only made Admiral prior to Wing Commander III. And he was played by Malcom McDowell orginally. He was perfect for the role. Not to say David Warner is a bad actor, cause he is great, but no, you can't replace McDowell in that role. Keeping on Wing Commander III, the skipper missile was an experimental weapon used by the Kilrathi at the end of the war. It wasn't even a concept yet at the time Blair was a rookie. The cloaked "phantom fighters" that made their debut in Wing Commander II would still have been in development at the time of the movie, let alone well known skipper missiles for the first movie. Additionally, the Concordia was a new Confed Dreadnaught, brand new by Wing Commander II. Perhaps in service only a short while. She was old and dirty in the movie, and so was the Tiger Claw. Another thing, Paladin was played by John-Rys Davies in the game, and they picked some guy who just didn't measure up. And what is with the whole pilgrim thing? That wasn't in the game at all!? I heard someone else speak about the relationship between Blair and the senior officers on the Tiger Claw as being inaccurate. I am more in tune with the later Wing Commander Games, so I can't testiy to that. I gave one point because the kid that played Maniac in the movie I could see turning into Tom Wilson. But Freddie Jr. No, sorry. He is no Blair. I pretend this movie never happened. I will forgive Chris Roberts if he wants to make a new game or try again with the movie this time using original cast from the game. And I mean no substitutes. Call Hamil and Wilson, McDowell, Davies and everyone else.<br /><br />That's my two cents. I did like the soundtrack.