Have you ever heard the expression "so stupid it is brilliant"? Well, you will see plenty of stupidity on offer here. So much of it, in fact, that you will begin to understand where the expression "so bad that it is awesome" comes from. Forget about Mortal Kombat, or even Resident Evil: Apocalypse. This is the film that video game adaptations get their reputation from. Every error of film-making you can think of, and even some you can't, is committed here. So many acting careers die here that the film should have been called Career Holocaust. You can bet that many members of the support cast neglect to mention this effort when discussing their CVs. About the only cast member who seems to have recovered from being in this abomination is Tchéky Karyo, and I am sure even he would rather forget this one. Incidentally, since when do you cast an actor with a French accent as thick as pea soup to play a character who was known in the early video games for having a Scottish accent so broad that it cemented the games reputation as a collection of stereotypes. Incidentally, Angel was supposed to be the French accent.<br /><br />But this is all pure digression. The cast's collective heart was in it, and the crew did the best job they could, but the direction is so weak that the film winds up looking like it was intended to form the cutscenes of a video game. No explanation for the technology on show is offered. No reference to the time in which the film takes place is offered. Many references place the film in the time just after the declaration of war against the Kilrathi. But the scenario being depicted shows the Kilrathi imminently approaching Earth, which was one of the available scenarios in the third video game, which in turn is set decades into the war. Not to mention the stealth technology, which is introduced some years into the war, and yet the most prominent fighters of the Terran confederation look like rejected designs for World War II aircraft with shower nozzles stuck to their fronts.<br /><br />The spacecraft design leads me to believe that members of the crew might be at least half right when they say that the problem with this film is the budget. In a time when science-fiction theatre was costing upwards of a hundred million per film, a miniscule thirty million was spent on this production. It shows. Shots of the main enemy in anything other than spacecraft form are rare, and when we do finally get to see the Kilrathi, they look more like big turds than humanoid cats. In one memorable sequence, we get to see a wrecked space fighter, with its pilot still within, pushed off the runway by a futuristic bulldozer that seems to grip the tarmac using the traditional wheel arrangement. In zero gravity, mind you. Of course, the runway could have gravity wells, or the bulldozer could have magnetically-charged wheels, but this is something the director or the screenwriter is supposed to explain to the audience. Very little explanation of anything, even why the Pilgrims are so space-savvy, is offered. There is basically a whole lot of tell and very little show.<br /><br />Speaking of the Pilgrims, a subplot is added to this film that states the original Human explorers of space were a group dubbed the Pilgrims, who began to renounce their Human qualities. Apparently, a war started between the Pilgrims and the rest of Humanity, with the present Terran Confederation beset by a severe prejudice against Pilgrims. This is all well and fine, but it adds nothing to the actual plot, and only muddies the waters as to what the Humans are fighting about. All it really serves to do is give our central hero a Luke Skywalker sort of quality, and not a very convincing one at that. The idiotic game the Terran pilots play that dead pilots basically never existed flies right in the face of every convention set in the original video games. And it isn't like the crew have the excuse of not having played the games, because the director is the same guy who oversaw their creation. All this turns out to be is a very stupid attempt at a creative plot arc that, like the Pilgrim element, has no bearing upon the story whatsoever.<br /><br />Unlike most of the rotten films I have commented about lately, I gave Wing Commander a one out of ten. Watching the cast, respectable otherwise or no, trying to chew their way through boot-like dialogue is pure comedy gold. Realising that the director expects us to feel scared of these gigantic turd monsters he calls the Kilrathi is even funnier. Therefore, Wing Commander is not just so bad it is good. It is so stupid it is utterly brilliant.