Cliff Groves (Fred MacMurray), a toy manufacturer, has been married for about twenty years to Marian (Joan Bennett), who now takes him for granted and gives most of her attention to their demanding children, leaving Cliff feeling unloved and unappreciated and ripe for an affair with old flame Norma Vale (Barbara Stanwyck), a successful fashion designer.<br /><br />I really enjoyed this movie, despite its somewhat heavy-handed depiction of Fred MacMurray's unhappy home life, and the casting of the awful Joan Bennett. Joan Bennett seemed near-comatose in every film I ever saw her in, with no more facial or vocal expression than a turtle. How did she ever get even one acting job? Barbara Stanwyck looked great, and Fred MacMurray was as attractive as ever. Ever notice what a good build he had? He was very athletic in his youth, and stayed in good shape. Joan Bennett, however, was the dullest actress in movie history. I don't approve of adultery, but I felt so sorry for Cliff, having that boring, dim-witted lump for a wife, and those thankless brats for children, that I wouldn't have blamed him if he had ditched them all for the glamorous yet down-to-earth Norma Vale. Marian lives only for her children, and when Cliff tries to talk to her about his loneliness and hurt at always taking second place to the kids, she makes light of his feelings with some condescending and witless comments that made me want to choke her.<br /><br />The scene where Cliff tries to get Norma to run away with him is well-written and believable. Norma, distraught, tells him they have to face reality, that he'll still want to see Marian (although why he would ever want to see Marian again escapes me), and that if he marries Norma, he would shame his family, be alienated from his children, etc., etc. The ending of this movie is very unsatisfying. Norma goes back to New York to her life and career, and we see her sitting alone on the plane, heartbroken & crying. Cliff gazes up from his living room window at Norma's plane flying overhead, then turns and walks away, at which point Marian materializes beside him and takes his arm, saying something like, "You haven't been yourself lately", to which Cliff replies, "I'm all right now". Then he tells Marian fondly, "You know me better than I know myself". WHAT??? Marian has been ignoring the poor man for years and is patronizing and totally insensitive to his feelings, but now we're supposed to believe that good ol' Cliff has come to his senses and all is well. I taped this movie off of AMC about ten years ago, and I remember the host of the show saying that originally, the movie did not include this preposterous, tacked-on ending. The emotional scene where Norma forces Cliff to face reality about the hopelessness of their situation was originally supposed to be the final scene, if I remember correctly. Norma flees, and Cliff is left standing alone and dejected in his office workshop, while in the foreground we see "Rex the Walkie-Talkie Robot Man" walking to the end of the table and falling off the end. Rex was the obvious symbol for Cliff. This ending was deemed too depressing, or something, so the writers were forced to add the ridiculous and false scene with Marian.<br /><br />Watch this movie when you get a chance, but try to picture somebody else in the Joan Bennett role.