I had never heard of this before, I didn't read reviews or thoughts or anything about this movie and I didn't even read the small texts on the cover of the box...This could have gone very wrong but instead of that it became 100 minutes of pure fun. So, now I'll do my best to recommend it to as many other people as possible. "El dia de la Bestia" was made in Spain, or the new great home of horror these days. Spanish directors proved themselves a lot lately and I think this guy, Alex De La Iglesia , deserves some extra credit. This guy obviously is a big lover of horror and the whole cult atmosphere around it. In a genius kind of way, he mixes a lot of appropriate elements in his movie like heavy metal music and fortune-telling. Angél is a priest who just translated a disturbing writing. He found out that the Antichrist himself will be born on Christmas day of 1995. In Madrid, because all the signs of apocalypse looks like it. To avoid this horrible event that would mean the end of the world, he has to face Satan himself. So, he travels to Madrid and commits a lot of sins, which is pretty funny to watch. He meets a heavy-metal freak (sorry : Death Metal!) and a fortune-teller who fooled many people by faking an exorcism. But when all preparations are set, Satan doesn't show up ! Did they make a mistake ? One thing is certain, they have to hurry because Christmas is only one night away... It wouldn't do much if I named all the actors of this movie because their names don't ring a bell. But, I can say they're all very good actors and they clearly did their best work in this film. Like I said before, this film contains a lot of humor but it never spoofs the genre. There's always a lot of respect present and I think that's a great achievement. Also, I would have thought there was a lot more gore in this film. To my surprise, the gory scenes are very limited and overall short. Gorehounds be advised because the cover and the title may make you think it's one big blood fest. Good film, nice change, great fun...highly recommended if you need a break from all the typical nowadays slasher-films.