Despite people comparing this show to Supernatural, it actually shares very few things in common with that series. Yes, the main character is named Sam, he *does* have some powers and there are demons/supernatural things going on - but that's where the similarities end. Reaper is much more tongue-in-cheek/takes itself far less seriously/embraces the absurdity of the situation, rather than focusing on the drama aspect. That isn't to say that there aren't serious moments in the show, but when we get them, it is SO unexpected that you suddenly realise things aren't all light-hearted and there is potential for some truly dark moments/themes to be explored. The show's morbid sense of humour is one of its best assets. The creepiness catches you completely off guard.<br /><br />Whilst the show is rather formulaic, and rarely deviates from its pretty simplistic premise, it does make attempts to try new and different things on occasion. The first few episodes are probably the slowest of the series, but around episode 5 or 6, things start to pick up and you realise that there may be more to this show than it would first have you believe. While it may not take as many risks as it probably should, it does at least come up with some twists and turns along the way. There are some unforeseen/interesting developments in Season 2 especially.<br /><br />One of the main reasons the show works is because of its hero, Sam Oliver. Bret Harrison fits the role well and demonstrates that he's capable of balancing the humorous aspects with the more serious side of things. He a bit of a "loser", yes, but a likable loser nonetheless. The most important thing is that you can sympathise with him and the impossible situation he's in. Sympathy for the Devil, however? Not so much. Guy's a jerk. But an entertaining jerk (which, really, is all that matters). Ray Wise is another piece of brilliant casting, as he's able to exude menace along with that twisted sense of humour one would expect from Lucifer. He can turn on a dime, from friend to foe.<br /><br />One of the main things that peeked my interest about this show from the start was the fact that it starred Missy Peregrym (who had been underused on Heroes). I'd longed for a show that had not only a love interest for the hero who *stayed* on the series (and wasn't booted off simply because fangirls didn't like her), but also had a truly likable relationship happening between the hero and the love interest. The Sam/Andi relationship is surprisingly refreshing in that, whilst it starts off in familiar territory (ie. he must lie, make up lame excuses and keep secrets from her), it actually gets moving after a while. It doesn't drag things out NEARLY as long as other shows do and by the end of the first season, certain things are revealed that makes for a change of pace from the usual continuous lying/keeping secrets over multiple seasons.<br /><br />You can see why Sam falls for a girl such as Andi (she's a cool chick, and nowhere near as bland as most female love interests tend to be). Although she does get understandably ticked off at times, she never does anything to make you HATE her. Missy is, in large part, the reason for this. You can't help but like her. It's a different case with Sam's bulky buddy, Sock, however. He's the sort of character you either love or loathe (he proved to be the latter for me, after having witnessed his animal cruelty in the 'Pilot'). He's your typical annoying sidekick - complete with crude jokes, bad advice and slacker behaviour. A large portion of screen time is often wasted on his (mostly) unfunny comments. Poor Ben (Sam's other friend) is less annoying, but almost always ends up getting hurt every episode (at least he cares for animals).<br /><br />There are other supporting characters who vary in their likability. Sam's boss at The Work Bench, Ted, is the usual type of jerk you'd expect (but is, on occasion, somewhat funny). Josie, Sock's ex, is kind of a non-entity and you wonder how on Earth she could ever fall for someone like him. Then there's Gladys, the demon at the DMV who basically exists to deliver the escaped souls that Sam has captured (with an array of bizarre and comical "vessels") to Hell and say, "Place the vessel on the mat.". Much more successful are the characters of Tony and Steve (Sam's neighbours). Tony, especially, is well-portrayed by Ken Marino (from Veronica Mars). There's also the awesomely weird spawn of Satan, Cady (Jessica Stroup). She provides some nicely creepy moments (but unfortunately makes a premature exit and never returns). Her absence is more than made up for in Season 2, however, by the introduction of a demonic love interest for Ben, named Nina (played perfectly by Jenny Wade). She proves to be a great addition to the cast and provides plenty of wicked humour.<br /><br />The show might not have the best CGI going around, but it gets by. You can't really criticise it for the somewhat dodgy effects, considering the type of show it is. What matters is that, with its cast of bizarre/funny characters, its ludicrous "vessel" props, and - at times - dark humour, the show avoids being overly convoluted (as so many other shows are getting these days), offering us something that's easy to get into. The second and final season shows what great potential the show had. It's a shame the series was cancelled. While the final episode does feel a tad rushed and things are left open-ended/unanswered, it's at the same time oddly satisfying as well. This series is definitely worth a look.