I can't say enough good things about this film. It's poignant, funny, intelligent, and beautifully filmed. It really captures the feeling of the California surf culture quite well. It makes you feel like you can hear the waves outside as soon as the movie ends. Perhaps the beginning surfer party goes on a bit long, and yes there is a Tijuana scene that's a bit pointless too, but the movie gets stronger as it goes along. There is an interesting Vietnam War crossover in a recruiting 'barracks' - the surf guys come up with all sorts of outrageous ways to get out of going to Vietnam. Some of their antics work (like a Nazi regalia outfit, or JMV's injured leg), and others don't (Waxer's failed 'homosexual'). The crux of the movie really relies on William Katt and Jan Michael Vincent. They seem to be the closest buddies in the film, and the movie revolves around their changing and sometimes turbulent relationship - the common thread being their love of surfing. William Katt (Jack) is more of a straight-arrow character, whereas Vincent's (Matt) is frighteningly like his true off screen persona (a drunk who ends up sleeping on the beach - which actually happened to him!). Jack goes off to war willingly - and Matt stays behind, uncomfortable with the strangeness of the 60's culture around him. Jack returns from the war in one piece - and the first thing he does is go out to the ocean to find Matt and surf. The film ends in the 70's with the 'Big Wednesday' moment - a gigantic swell on the coast. All three buddies (can't forget about the unforgettable Gary Busey in this!) all meet at their usual beach and surf better than ever. They part ways at the end. Jan Michael Vincent is very good in this film, but in a quiet way. He's a pensive character. He has a great emotional scene at a cemetery, mourning a lost friend in the war. His brooding eyes carry the film - and you are always watching him and his reactions throughout. He also actually does a lot of his own surfing in the film, as did Busey and Katt. Katt is excellent as well - I wish he'd done more films like this one!