Three hoods take out a Mafia racket in $300,000, but since they killed a couple of their kind as well. The Mafia and the Harlem heavyweights join forces in tracking down the men. Captain Mattielli is on the case, but because of the situation he's soon following orders from the up-and-coming, well-educated Lieutenant Pope. Not only are they in a race to get their hands on the three men before the mafia does, but also confronting their own personal plight.<br /><br />Barry Shear's powerful, smart, cynical and nitty gritty crime thriller "Across 110th Street" that stars three gut-busting performances by Anthony Quinn, Yaphet Kotto and the amazing Tony Franciosa is a worthy payout and one of the best of its era. Shear's workman-like style is naturally imposing and tersely tight knit in its realistic delivery. Violence is bloody, hard-hitting and it leads to excellent rapid-fire finale. Everything about it is smoothly paced and the editing is effectively done. The rough, unsparing and potent atmospheric New York Harlem setting is extremely heavy with its depressing nature and expertly photographed with a raw touch. Providing much of grunt and rattle also was the saucy, upbeat music score and crackerjack soundtrack that complemented the visuals superbly. Luther Davis' vivid screenplay (adapted off Wally Ferris' novel) is thoughtfully drawn up in displaying a deprivation of a tough society and the politics used to grab the upper hand. The claustrophobic script cooks up many interesting sub-plots with authenticity and emotion, as the pulsating violence never overstays it's welcome because it's established through the material, then just being there for the sake of it. The moody performances are simply top-rate because of fully rounded characters. Quinn excels in his part as weary, hothead detective who sees his career coming to an end. Kotto's placid, sharp-shooting performance is sturdily tailored in staying on cruise control. Franciosa works very well to bringing underlining menace to his fruitful mafia character. A fashionable Richard Ward is relentlessly memorable as one of Harlem big heads. Antonio Fargas, Paul Benjamin, and Ed Bernard are good as the ill-fated black hoods. Gloria Hendry makes for a fine appearance too.<br /><br />A well-observed and intense potboiler from the glorious 70s. Highly Recommended.