Put together a charming story, a hilarious "Jazz Singer" parody as a plotline, and one of the most catchy, toe-tappin' knee-slappin' ditties ever used in an animated short, and you have "I Love to Singa", probably one of the ten best cartoons of all times. A proud owl concertmaster (who absolutely DETESTS jazz and will not allow it in his house!) anxiously awaits with his wife the hatching of their four eggs. The magical day comes and the owls give birth to an accomplished tenor in a little black tuxedo, a virtuosic violinist, a skillful fluitist, and...what's THIS?!?! The fourth egg cracks open, and a bawdy, free-spirited little scamp in a red cocktail lounge jacket and a blue zootsuit bowtie pops fourth, and this little guy comes out SWINGIN'! He's layin' down that big beat that all the hep-cats dig. He's croonin' a hot little number while doing a haughty Vaudeville strut! This angers his father beyond words, and the way-gone little owl is quickly thrown from his nest. Destitute and down-hearted, our ever-chipper little owl-pal (whose name happens to be Owl Jolson!) finds a radio talent search being held nearby and is overcome with joy. After several disappointing entries at the competition, Owl Jolson shows up and MAN, the kid blows everyone away! But when his folks show up, he thinks his fun is over, so he quickly tries to disguise his red-hot boogie woogie and starts singing some sappy ol' funeral parlor tune or somethin', which really doesn't jive with the deejay. It looks like his chance is lost, but all at once, his father repents of his ignorance, and states his pride in his son, telling him that it's perfectly okay for him to singa about a moona and a June-a and a springa! The kid takes up the number from there, wowing the deejay and the radio audiences, taking home first prize, sealing his bright future in jazz and claiming his place in the sun! This is a really cute little 'toon, even for a guy of my nineteen years who doesn't watch cartoons much. I always get a kick out of our owl hero going for the gusto and learning to always be true to himself. The title song WILL get stuck in your head, there's no avoiding that, but hey, it's a GREAT song to have stuck there! What a loving tribute to Al Jolson, and what a classic, unforgettable cartoon, even to this day! Grownups, do your children a big favor, make sure they see this one! The lesson is timeless, and your kids will love the music. Enjoy!!!