(There are Spoilers) Wild and crazy gorilla on the loose movie that has the gorilla sending notes to his victims, by vine mail, telling them that they just got 24 hours to live. We never seem to know why the gorilla is targeting those who he eventually does in until the the very end of the movie which, the explanation, is so off-the-wall and confusing that when the movie is finally over your still not quite sure who the killer, or gorilla, is! With two different people being exposed as being either the gorilla or the gorilla's partner in crime.<br /><br />The gorilla, Art Miles, himself is nothing but an innocent bystander who got caught up with all this monkey business that has to do with an Uncle Stevens, Lionel Atwill, who's been contacted by the Gorilla through his terrified maid Kitty, Patsy Kelly telling him that he'll be dead by midnight! The gorilla also is heard speaking throughout the movie ,without the slightest hint of a gorilla accent, on the radio giving instructions to those trapped, because of a violent thunderstorm, in Uncle Stevens' mansion.<br /><br />With his niece Norma, Anita Louise, and her future husband Jack Marsden, Edward Norris, coming over for dinner Uncle Stevens has to cancel the engagement and call the Acme Detective Agency to send their best man, or in this case men, Garrity Harrian & Mulligan, the Ritz Brothers, to protect him form the rampaging gorilla. The gorilla seems to know his way around the house and is always a step ahead of the buffoonish as well as defective detectives, Garrity Harrigan & Mulligan, making them look and act more like monkeys then him. The three are then confronted by another gorilla, who has nothing to do with the gorilla's string of murders. This gorilla escaped from his keeper when he was bopped over the head by the other gorilla in order to have his, peaceful and law abiding, gorilla take the rap for the crimes that he committed. To make thing worse Uncle Stevens who hired Garrity Harrigan & Mulligan to protect him and keep the gorilla from getting to him ends up being kidnapped and possibly murdered by the gorilla.<br /><br />There's a whole lot of sub-plots in this movie that has to do with Uncle Stevens mismanaging his clients funds, which may well have been the reason for Stevens to get himself lost, as well as both this mysterious stranger, Joseph Celleia, popping up out of nowhere claiming to be an agent of the SEC, Security & Exchange Commission, who's investigating Uncle Stevens' unethical financial practices as well. There's also this other weirdo A.P Conway, Paul Harvey, claiming to be one of Uncle Stevens clients whom he embezzled some $250,000.00 out of. And of course there's the great Bela Lugosi in what seemed like a cameo, even though he's on the screen almost as much as the star of the movie the gorilla, role as Uncle Stevens creepy butler Peter.<br /><br />The Ritz Brothers get to do their thing in making total jerks of themselves and making you wonder if Uncle Stevens, who was crazy enough to hire them, was in fact in on his own kidnapping in order to get away Scot-free with all the money he stole while everyone else, including the local police and SEC, was sent on a wild goose chase. The ending is just too much to even try to explain with the truth coming out about just who the gorilla is and what he was really up to. This all made you wonder if the theory of evolution actually works in reverse with the gorilla, the real not the fake one, being about brightest and the most intelligent person in the film.