If Disney's name was still somewhere on this one, I bet they wish they'd have taken it off by now. After affixing the Disney brand to five--count 'em, five--Air Bud installations, all laughable after the first one broke some modest ground (and prompted rumors from PETA that Buddy the dog was killed by bone spurs resulting from wearing tennis shoes in filming), any affiliation with this travesty must be purely contractual. This film does nothing, is nothing, and means nothing; it has all the Disney stereotypes: the unsure new kid in town, his surfer-talking, typical-teen older brother punk rock guitarist (played hilariously by Trevor Wright), the hot snowboard instructor girl (who inevitably falls for Wright's character, despite lack of screen time together), the single father, bumbling criminals under a kingpin boss who should just fire the two, and the apparently psychotic monkey lady who follows her chimps across two countries on airlines that apparently allow monkeys to use passports and occupy seats. This series has become the new "Land Before Time," trudging out the same tired stories, straight-to-DVD, and waiting for overeager parents to grab it off the Wal-Mart shelf, slap this tripe on and shut their kids up. Will it work? Unfortunately, yes. Is it shameful, the continued lack of creativity in producing childrens' films? Absolutely. "MXP: Most Xtreme Primate" is sickening to watch and is simply a bunch of flashy editing and colors to brainwash Junior for 88 minutes. Parents couldn't be happier, but anyone who actually takes a look at this will think, "Wait, didn't that dog do this in 1997?" Fortunately, no recognizable actors or actresses surface in this one to showcase just how hard they've fallen (as was not the case in something like "American Psycho 2," the deplorable sequel to a classic featuring Mila Kunis and ol' Bill Shatner). Get something like "Land Before Time ONE" or "Heavyweights" for the kids tonight--they stand up much better than this mistake ever will.