Ugh what to say... OK well I want to start by making some points I'm a romance guy. I like romantic movie always have, always will. From classics like Love Story, West Side Story, Romeo and Juliet, Ghost to the modern entries such as Titanic, Moulin Rouge, Walk to remember and even Twilight. I love sci/fi films from the awesomeness that is Serenity and Alien to turkey's like the astronauts wife and Invasion. And I like Dramas from Terms of Endearment to Steel Magnolias. I love Rachel Mcadams she is so likable and brought surprising depth to her roles in Family Stone, Red Eye and even Mean Girls. And I can think of hell of a lot of worse things than spending two hours naked with Eric Bana. So why didn't I love this movie. Well I guess because all in all it's kinda silly or at least its executed in a silly manner. The film is kind of a mess for its first half before finally finding somewhere to go. All of the turns are throughly predictable the chemistry between the leads is surprisingly generic and so are ther performances. I have no idea who anyone is in this movie and to tell you the truth after being dragged along for a while I didn't care. You see the movie never pulls you into its concept or its romance and there in lies the problem. They approach the subject matter from a seemingly realistic stand point but than falter in the execution that proceeds it. For instance why is so accepting of the fact that he time travels??? because they seem him disappear? I don't know about you but if I was a little girl or a grown man and some dissolved in front of me I'd be terrified. Anything that feels magical in the trailer feels forced and kinda creepy in the overall film. But yet I didn't hate it. Sure I spent a good hour hating the film but in its second half it pulls together for a bit before its overly anti climactic ending and there are some good moments. All in all it just all feels kinda silly and isn't very involving but like I said there are far worse things you could do besides spending two hours with a naked Eric Bana.