There are movies like "Deja Vu" and "Heaven Can Wait"...movies with out of this world understanding coupled with great love stories. "Time Traveler" is nothing but foolish, misguided, nonsensical crap. It simply doesn't work! No matter how hard you try to make it so. The time traveler can time travel with no rhyme or reason as to why. He just does. He says he can't take clothes with him and always ends up naked...somewhere, anywhere he just pops up. Yet...when the horse's arse gets shot by a hunter...he has no problem coming back to the 'present' with a bullet and wound in his side which, thankfully kills him and ends this dribble of a movie. The viewer can't possibly gain any appreciation for any of the characters or their circumstances. It's NOT a love story like the previously mentioned, great examples of this sorta-kinda movie. You don't care about these to. It's so stupid in its content and presentation, you really don't care if his young daughter would time travel smack dab into the middle of the Taliban! That's exactly how bad the connection is with these characters. There simply is no empathy for them. Period. Pitt bought the screen rights to this garbage while he was with Anniston. Pitt produces it. No wonder Anniston isn't in the credits. She knew better. She probably sold her portion to Pitt because she wanted nothing to do with him or it. Even Angelina stays well clear of this crap. Then there's two of him or two of the daughter who also has the 'gift'. My question is: Why weren't there 3 or 4 of them all at the same time to really make it ridiculous. I'm a sucker for a good love story and a well thought out 'what if' kinda story. This is so not neither! If Pitt wants to buy the rights to a good movie with a no kidding, monumentally interesting and original story that also includes an amazing love story: Purchase the rights to "Sariah's Secret!" Contact 'Ladymoon' for details. Brad, you are better than this. (You should've sold YOUR half to Anniston and cut your losses!) UPDATE: Only 4 out of 10 agree? Are you kidding me? You "6" actually liked this ridiculous, nonsense? What are you all? 13-years old? Because the only age group who could possibly 'relate'.