On a cold winter's night Clare (Rachel McAdams) confesses to her husband Henry (Eric Bana), "I wouldn't change a second of our life together." McAdams and Bana are both beautiful and amazing in Director Robert Schwentke's "The Time Traveler's Wife" based on the bestselling novel by Audrey Niffenegger. "The Time Traveler's Wife" adapted by screenwriter Bruce Joel Rubin is a bitter sweet and strange love story. It is not perfect; although, it ends perfectly. There is a timeless and yearning quality that engages in "The Time Traveler's Wife". However, Schwentke and Rubin might have leveraged sharper emotional arcs at particular narrative points. During the course of their lives, Clare and Henry experience tragedy and joy. In spite of this, Rachel McAdams is stunning. I am in love with her. Bana is powerful and moving.<br /><br />In a heartbreaking scene Clare (McAdams) tells Henry (Bana), "Do you think I wanted this life?" Time Traveler Henry indiscriminately vanishes to different places in time and space. Interesting to that end, this seems to follow "The Terminator" rule: Henry can only travel through time naked. Also interesting to note that Bana as Henry is a muscular 6'3", which makes finding clothes that fit wherever he arrives difficult. I digress. The point is McAdams captures both Clare's humanity and angst. She embodies an authenticity in Clare. Eric Bana displays a strength and gentleness. His Henry travels to the future and meets his lovely 10 year old daughter Alba (amazing Hailey McCann). He gazes upon Alba with such love when she says, "I love you Daddy!" Underlying it all, "The Time Traveler's Wife" is about legacy and everlasting love. So regardless of some clumsy repetitive narrative loops and circular logic, McAdams and Bana make you care about their love story.<br /><br />We first see 6 year old Henry (good Alex Ferris) singing with his mom Annette (beautiful and strong Michelle Nolden) in a car. Tragedy befalls, and Henry's Time Traveler abilities are revealed—also by the grown up Henry (Bana). But for Henry this seems more curse than gift. Then one day Clare sees Henry in a Chicago library, and says, "It's you!" Apparently, older Henry has been visiting Clare since she was 6 years old. She says that he seems to keep visiting the same places. Henry replies, "Yeah. It's like gravity." Clare has been in love with Henry her entire life.<br /><br />It turns out that Henry has a genetic defect that is the cause of his time travel. To that end he seeks out, and finally convinces the bewildered Dr. Kendrick (solid Stephen Tobolowsky) of his plight. But what does this foreshadow about Clare and Henry having a family and their life together? Director Schwentke sort of telegraphs the painful narrative twist. Then he recovers and resolves perfectly and eloquently as Henry regrets, "I can't stay…" Ultimately, "The Time Traveler's Wife" is about life—its joy, fragility, and mortality. Things just happen, not necessarily for a reason. And if you take a chance and find the love of your life, then it is life worth having lived. I loved "The Time Traveler's Life".