(POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD)Ninety years ago Frances Hodgson Burnett wrote the classic book of childhood, "The Secret Garden," unleashing into the world of literature one of the most remarkable characters ever, Mary Lennox. Mary is a plain-looking ten year old child who was raised in India. She was all but completely ignored by her self-absorbed parents and put under the care of ayahs, who indulged her in order to keep her from bothering her parents. She had no friends or playmates of her age, so she never experienced the give and take of interacting with other children. Thus, she grew to the age of ten generally helpless, unable to care for herself, demanding, and lacking in basic social skills. Contrary to some critical opinions, Mary isn't so much nasty-bratty as haughty-arrogant. But she had a seemingly insatiable thirst for learning, and the capacity and wisdom to read and understand the ways of her world. And she had a driving will to achieve her goals. She also was able to recognize and appreciate offers of friendship and love from whatever source. (SPOILERS)Considering the depth and power given her character by author Burnett in the first half of the story of "The Secret Garden," it's ironic that with the introduction of Colin Craven, her cousin, Mary seems to be elbowed out of the way in favor of a bigger emphasis on Colin's story line. Indeed, in the original story and most of its movie incarnations, she isn't even given the privilege of sharing in the dramatic ending where Colin and his estranged father are at last united. It's especially ironic in light of the fact that it was through Mary's efforts that the garden and its magic were resurrected, Colin grew strong, and the reconciliation of Colin and his father was enabled. "The Secret Garden" is not Mary's story; however, it's the story Mary made possible. (SPOILER)Director Agnieszka Holland, a devoted admirer of the original novel, understood Mary's importance, and brought the story around in a full circle to end in the scene where Lord Craven, Colin's father, gives Mary her deserved recognition. "You brought us back to life, Mary," he tells her. So this movie starts with an arrogant child throwing her name at you, not caring whether you like her or not, and it ends with a messiah who "learned how to cry."<br /><br />The whole cast was great, especially the children Heydon Prowse (Colin) and Andrew Knott (Dickon) and especially, especially Kate Maberly who played Mary with such power and depth. Also, recognition should go to Maggie Smith as the intimidating Mrs. Medlock, John Lynch as Colin's somber bereft father Lord Craven, and to Laura Crossley for her heart-warming portrayal of the bright, sensitive, humble Martha.