Enigmatic vampire, who arrived oddly on the shore of a beach in his casket, whose arrival is introduced by his enforcer/guardian, Barbado(LaSesne Hilton)playing a flute, masquerades as a philosophical leader, whose language regarding life and love casts a spell among the aimless hippie youth in a quiet little town. Only young Pico(Bill Ewing), who resists his power of influence, can stop vampire Count Khorda(Robert Quarry)who plans to sacrifice his girlfriend Rona(Brenda Dickson)in a Satanic ceremony. Pico will have to rely on the only help he can depend on, an aging hippie, Pop(character actor, John Fiedler, who is one of the most recognizable faces in Television history and the voice of Piglet in Winnie the Pooh)to help defeat Khorda who has turned all their friends into vampires.<br /><br />Rarely seen Quarry vampire picture that, according to the great actor, was purchased by Sam Arkoff and buried into obscurity. Thankfully, Fred Olen Ray's DVD company Retromedia was able to get the rights and, not only that, but have audio commentary for DEATHMASTER with Quarry, which is quite a rewarding experience for fans of the horror icon. The print is fantastic and the director of the film, Ray Danton, has a very distinctive style where the camera follows the action, but in a very sophisticated way. The film is definitely of it's time, quite dated, but a fascinating curio for Quarry fans who are very familiar with his Yorga character, but not Khorda(..this film was sandwiched between the Yorga films according to Quarry)who is dressed in elaborate robes, jewelry, and long hair carrying the appearance of some guru or oddball prophet..Quarry admits in the audio commentary that his look is fashioned after Charles Manson and that the film itself regarding the hippie youth was modeled after his followers. Not incredibly violent, with Khorda's neck attacks shot in a non-offensive way, and DEATHMASTER still follows the basic vampire principles established in filmdom(..the cross effects them as does a stake through the heart)that we're accustomed to. By and large, this film benefits almost entirely from Quarry's charismatic presence alone, even if what he has to say to the hippie kids is basic mumbo jumbo(..Quarry admits that he ad-libbed much of this dialogue)often used at that point and time while these youth were stoned or spaced out on acid. Quarry even gets to pay homage to Lugosi with the close-up of his sinister eyes multiple times as Khorda uses his power to hypnotize victims. Barbado is about as imposing as his master, a bulky statuesque type of security who towers over everyone he comes in contact with. His face never changes, always distant and cold. Ewing is a very unlikely hero, a kid out of his league against a far superior foe..but the film allows him to become a worthy adversary, because of the very fact that he's not particularly your prototypical knight-in-shining-armour. The beach is a stunning location as is the cool tunnel underneath the hippie commune house where Khorda keeps his resting place(..it also leads to the beach and has a submarine door!). Only real beef I have(..despite the now silly hippie-speak)is the title..this kind of vampire movie needs a more credible title.