Colosseum: A Gladiator's Story is a good docudrama and most likely was created primarily for use in the high school or college classroom or to be broadcast on either public television or the History Channel. (It might be helpful to know that it doesn't show intense violence but does suggest it; it also makes clear that gladiators, like modern-day athletes and rock stars, had their share of groupies.) The other fellow who provided a review seems more than a little confused about the general intent of the production. In no way was it ever meant to compete against major feature movies and should not be purchased by someone hoping to see a gladiatorial movie comparable to Gladiator. In a nutshell, it tells the story of two gladiators, using some very basic story-telling techniques to accomplish its goals. First, rather than taking a straight-forward documentary approach, the entire story is instead presented using live actors on location in appropriate costume. (Production values and special effects are not first-rate, but they're definitely more than adequate and comparable to much of what you would normally see on the History Channel.) Second, two narrative lines run throughout the production, and there's never any confusion about who is speaking. One speaker is clearly an omniscient voice who helps put the story of the gladiators into historical perspective, providing facts and details to enlighten the modern viewer; the second narrator is one of the gladiators, Verus, who tells the viewer whatever is on his mind as it relates to his story. In the end, the narrative approach works well and does not undermine the overall story or make it seem ridiculous despite the fact that the story does have a predictable element to it. On the whole the docudrama works well and does a good job of conveying the facts about Roman gladiatorial combat. It also blends fact and fabrication in a way that seems fair and reasonable so that the viewer has been well served when the credits roll.