In the opening sequences of the film, we see three Hollywood big-shots; one, an actress, the other a director, and the third, a writer. All three very successful at what they do. The trio are in different ways connected to Johnathan Shields, who at the present time is trying to get the three to be a part of his comeback. The three are in no way anxious to work with him once again. Johnathan, a big time Hollywood producer, ran his career into the ground by pushing away people, who in the end could of prolonged his at one time successful profession. The three go on to tell their own intriguing stories how they met Shields, explaining how they grew to resent him.<br /><br />Georgia, (played wonderfully by Lana Turner) now a popular actress began as a bit player in one of Shields films. Shield's in time, casts her as a lead in one of his pictures. Her anxiety's of ruining her big break almost lead her to miss her fortunate opportunity. The film becomes a success, solidifying Georgia as a respected actress. She soon discovers Johnathan romancing another woman, leading her to walk away from her contract with Shields, finding success elsewhere with another studio.<br /><br />Jim, a writer, has his novel purchased by Shields to be turned into a motion picture. At Shields request, he approaches Jim to write the screenplay to the film. Jim dislikes Johnathan at first, in time, seeing him as something better. The two travel to the countryside to finish the screenplay. Before-hand, Johnathan asks an actor to keep Jim's clingy wife away for a while. His wife Rosemary, and the actor have a misfortunate accident and are killed in plane crash. Unknowingly, Johnathan reveals to Jim, that he had a hand in his wife's accidental death, marking the end of their friendship.<br /><br />Then there's Fred, the hopeful and aspiring director, who of all places meets Shields at the man's fathers funeral. In time, the two become partners and make a few films together, mostly mediocre pictures. Fred recommends to Johnathan, that the two do a picture that is at first deemed impossible. After it gets the green-light, out of nowhere, Johnathan doesn't name Fred the picture's director, ironically, saying he wasn't experienced enough. Obviously feeling betrayed Fred walks away like Georgia did and acquires prosperity as a director, on his own.<br /><br />The reasons for all of Johnathan's bizarre doings, is for the most part, because of his own need to live up to his father's name, who founded 'Shields Productions', and became a big player in the industry. In the process he estranges himself from everyone who means something to him. The phrase, "what goes around, comes around" really comes into play, in the films climax. One of definite greats of the 1950's. Easily one of my Top 20 of all time.