Perhaps one of the toughest moments that anyone could have to face is the loss of a loved one-especially when it is due to cancer. But what if the loss of that person's life can be recognized, and the future for others in the same situation can be bettered. It is what the women of Yorkshire, England believed when one of their beloved persons was lost. `Calendar Girls' is a fresh comedy about a group of twelve women who want to raise money for a local hospital to help fight leukemia. But their manner of doing it is quite unorthodox, especially considering their age. They will pose nude for a calendar. Do not get the impression that their nudity will be any form of pornography-these are ladies and deserve to be treated as such. Their pictures will be taken behind cooking utensils, potted plants, menus and various forms of food as a reflection of their Women's Institute principles. The end result is a delightful blend of comedy and a perfect amount of sentimentality to create a film that touches all of our hearts.<br /><br />	Based on a true story, `Calendar Girls' tells the tale of Annie (Julie Walters), whose husband John (John Alderton) has recently died due to cancer. Feeling that his death was in vain and seeing how her Women's Institute is planning on raising money for a charitable cause, Annie and her friend Chris (Helen Mirren) decide to pose nude for a calendar. Naturally there is scrutiny among the women asked to pose, as well as the chairperson of the club. But after seeking unanimous approval, they embark on doing the calendar. When all is said and done, the women become an instant success not only in England, but are recognized across the world for their noble cause.<br /><br />But with their fame comes tabloid mania and family problems. Annie wonders if all the excess attention and advertising is necessary to remember John. As for Chris, her husband unwittingly tells a tabloid journalist that his wife has not made love to him in weeks because of the constant attention she receives from the calendar. Furthermore, her son feels embarrassed that his nearly middle-aged mother is posing nude. It becomes necessary for the women to realize the real purpose of the calendar-to raise money for a great man who loved them as much as they loved him. There is a line spoken by John prior to his death in which he reads his wife a speech he wrote. He says, `The women of Yorkshire are like the flowers of Yorkshire. With each passing stage, the more beautiful they become, with their final stage being the most beautiful.' It is a touching sentiment and hits the nail right on the nose about how remarkable the women were. They cared for a cause, and for the people involved. They would face possible humiliation and certain adversity, but would come out on top.<br /><br />There is an important point to be made with this film-the element of beauty at any age. Yes these women are middle-aged and the general thought behind any form of nudity is that it should focus on youth and vitality. But these women are every bit as beautiful as younger models, and probably more vivacious. This film does not try to be anything it is not. It does not want to humor us with slapstick humor, or distasteful sexual remarks. It is a pure movie that any audience can enjoy and will walk away from feeling uplifted. ***<br /><br />