Dracula Vs. Frankenstein starts in 'Oakmoor Cemetery' on a dark cold & stormy night as Count Dracula (Zandor Vorkov) digs the remains of the Frankenstein (John Bloom) creature up. The film then switches to a beach near an amusement park in Las Vegas. Jodie Fontaine (Maria Lease) is wandering around on her own when a big ugly guy called Groton (Lon Chaney Jr. as Lon Chaney) chops her head off with an axe. The film then switches to the Vegas strip where Jodies sister Judith Fontaine (the director's wife Regina Carrol) is a headlining act, we see her performance for a few minutes as the film becomes a low rent MGM musical. Afterwards she discusses Jodie with Sargeant Martin (Jim Davis) from the missing persons bureau, Judith doesn't receive much encouragement & decides to investigate Jodies disappearance herself. Meanwhile Jodies decapitated head has been reattached to her body by Dr. Duryea (J. Carrol Naish) who just happens to be the last living member of the Frankenstein family & now conducts his experiments from an amusement park attraction called 'Dr. Duryea's creature emporium' which exhibits various freaks. One night Count Dracula turns up & convinces Frankenstein to reanimate the monster. Judith teams up with a guy named Mike Howard (Anthony Eisley), a guy known as Strange (Greydon Clark) & his girlfriend Samantha (Anne Morrell) & they eventually stumble across the truth, which be honest I don't really understand, & have to fight for their very lives against Count Dracula & his silly looking laser beam shooting ring, both Frankenstein's monster & mad scientist, Groton, a dwarf named Grazbo (Angelo Rossitto) & a rapist biker named Rico (Russ Tamblyn), whew what a crazy film & I've barely touched the surface of what happens!<br /><br />Produced & directed by the infamous Al Adamson I loved this crazy, almost unbelievable film! You can't really judge Dracula Vs. Frankenstein by standard film criteria, instead you just need to sit back & enjoy the ride because I personally think this film is great fun to watch. Dracula Vs. Frankenstein quite literary has everything, it has a Frankenstein monster that looks like a speeding train has hit it's face head on, Count Dracula with a silly looking beard & an afro hairstyle, who talks with a bizarre echo throughout & has plastic teeth that bulge out of his mouth, a drug addicted mute hunchback assistant, a wheelchair bound Dr. Frankenstein with a gay looking goatee beard, ancient comets, lab equipment that would look dated during 20's, we do indeed see (well almost as it's filmed in the horrible day-for-night process) a Dracula Vs. Frankenstein fight at the end, a biker gang & a weird guy named Strange who gets excited about playing with an old tyre in an alleyway with his girlfriend! The script is all over the place, the dialogue is insane as Dracula says things like "your fear will fully energise the molecular structure of your blood", or a cop that says "if you've got a fireplace burn some wood in it, it'll be a lot better than running around on the streets" to a bemused Judith, Mike & the hippies also provide plenty of choice dialogue & lets not forget Dr. Frankenstein's mumbo jumbo "we are not butchers... we are scientists", almost every line is an absolute classic laugh-out-loud moment & I loved all of it! Dracula & Dr. Frankenstein only meet once in the film & generally speaking Dracula & Frankenstein's monster are relegated to bit-part characters as the film focuses on Dr. Frankenstein's experiments & Judith's investigations, which is a shame. Also, the plot is hardly logical, it makes virtually no sense whatsoever as Dracula says Dr. Frankenstein's serum will help him create an army of undead Vampires & some nonsense about the human body being reanimated with a natural substance made when someone is decapitated but what does that matter when a film is this consistently entertaining? The special optical effects are terrible, check out the laser beam from Dracula's ring. I thought the make-up on the Frankenstein monster was OK & it looked quite freaky. There is some gore, a couple of ripped off arms, some neck biting & a few chopped off heads. There is also one brief shot of female nudity. Technically Dracula Vs. Frankenstein is a bit of a mess, there are some awful day-for-night shots, the performances have to be seen to be believed, the music gets on the nerves after a while, the props & sets are cheap & the photography is point & hope for the best stuff. But having said all this what it basically boils down to is that I found Dracula Vs. Frankenstein just so entertaining & loads of fun, & surely that's what watching films is all about? Impossible to recommend as most sane people will hate every demented second of it, but I'm not most people am I? I'll sign off by saying I loved this film, so bad it's utterly brilliant!!!