I don't care what anyone says, Al Adamson's "Dracula vs. Frankenstein" is loads of fun to watch and is very entertaining! Adamson is one of those directors that you either love or hate and I happen to love him!<br /><br />"Dracula vs. Frankenstein" is a throwback to the Universal age of horror films, with some biker movie/musical/drug movie ingredients thrown in. J. Carrol Naish and Lon Chaney, Jr. are the classic actors thrown in as a tribute to the golden days of horror. Chaney isn't half-bad as murderous Grotto, given that he's a mute the entire movie, but Naish as Dr. Duray/Dr. Frankenstein is inexcusably wooden. This would be the last role for both of them. Adamson regulars Russ Tamblyn, Regina Carrol, Greydon Clark, and Gary Kent are along for the ride as well! Tamblyn is not used very much, but does strike a presence as Rico, a mean biker who attempts to rape a girl on the boardwalk! I love Regina Carrol dearly and she is fabulous in what could be her best role (that I've seen) as Judith Fontaine, a Vegas showgirl (who sings a great song!) who travels to Venice, California to find her missing sister. Anthony Eisley is her love interest, an aging hipster who is anything BUT hip (check out his tooth necklace!). Clark is Weird, a hippie who spends his time going to protests and venturing into Dr. Duray's Creature Emporium with his girlfriend Samantha. Gary Kent is seen briefly as the boyfriend who gets axed by Grotto on the beach! Now for the monsters: Dracula is played by Zandor Vorkov, an accountant with a white-boy afro, and Frankenstein is played by B-movie big boy John Bloom, whose makeup is...original, to say the least.<br /><br />The plot is sort of weak, the acting is a bit above average, the scares minimal, if not invisible, and production values are cheap. Lots of people say that this movie should have played on MST3K. But who says this movie can't be entertaining? In my opinion, a bad movie is one that can't entertain you in any possible way (see my review of "Demented"!). "Dracula vs. Frankenstein" is striking in its ineptitude and unforgettable in its cheap presentation.