As this country continues to struggle with the tragedies inflicted upon all who are being singed and scorched by the Iraq War (and that includes every citizen of this country, whether directly or indirectly), films addressing this war are wither avoided by the theatrical audiences or cause flare reactions of judgment. Into this milieu writer (with Mark Boal) and director Paul Haggis places this painful examination of the effects and aftershocks of war in the persona of a father whose only son is reported as 'missing' after he has returned from his tour of duty in Iraq. By keeping the story focused on the effect of the devastation on one man Haggis makes his point all the more clear, and the result is one of the finest documents of the insanity of war that has been released in some years.<br /><br />Hank Deerfield (Tommy Lee Jones) has served in the military and encouraged both his sons to serve their country (much against the emotional reaction of his wife Joan - Susan Sarandon): his older son is killed in a helicopter crash and his younger son, recently returned from a year's duty in Iraq, is reported as missing. Hank drives to the base where his son was stationed, learns of his son's death 'by friendly fire' at home, and tries t enlist the help of the military to investigate the affair without success. He encounters a sullen police detective Emily Sanders (Charlize Theron) who appears bruised by life in general and by her prejudiced co-workers and military men in particular. Gradually Emily sides with the grieving Hank to explore the horrid details of Hank's son's brutal murder, dismemberment and burning. Despite endless barriers of red tape and military secrecy lead by Lt. Kirklander (Jason Patric) both Emily and Hank slowly piece together the truth, using email videos Hank's son had sent him from Iraq, interviews with Hank's son's fellow soldiers, and examination of the body parts of Hank's son. Once the truth is out the effects on all concerned reveal the inevitable permanent scars of war on all concerned. Yet it is the strength of character as revealed in Hank's responses that drive home the pungent message of this difficult film.<br /><br />Tommy Lee Jones gives the most subtle performance of his fine career as the grieving yet stoic Hank. Charlize Theron once again proves that she can disappear into a demanding role like few other actresses. Susan Sarandon, Jason Patric, James Franco (in a tiny but pivotal role), Josh Brolin, Frances Fisher (in a cameo that is very impressive), and all the young men who play the soldiers involved in the investigation are superb. The film pulls no punches, yet it also refrains from sensationalizing events - as though Haggis realized that the truth was viciously cruel enough without embellishment. Special mention should be paid to the fine musical score by Mark Isham, a pulsating, minimalist background that heightens the effect of the film. This may be a difficult film to watch but it is a necessary experience if we are to constantly re-evaluate our philosophy of war and intervention.<br /><br />Grady Harp