In what is easily the best film of the year thus far, multi-talented up-and-coming Oscar-winning writer/director Paul Haggis (Crash, Flags of Our Fathers, Million Dollar Baby), brings us this intense, intelligent and subtle drama wrapped around a murder mystery. In what may be his finest performance yet, underrated actor Tommy Lee Jones plays an old, grizzled and retired military police sergeant who receives word his youngest son (Jonathon Tucker - Hostage, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre) is missing after being back in the states from fighting in Iraq just two days ago. Jones high-tails it to the military base to get answers, but what he ends up discovering is his son's dismembered body. With the help of a smarty young female police detective (Charlize Theron), Jones starts unraveling the truth behind his son's death. The film although written and directed by Paul Haggis doesn't feel like a Paul Haggis film. Million Dollar Baby, which he wrote, Crash and Flags of Our Fathers were all showy films, but In the Valley of Elah is remarkably subtle. By down-playing the emotions of the actors, Haggis achieves something far more powerful than if he had gone the easy melodramatic route most films centering around our current conflict in Iraq do. Haggis' directing skills have improved, and his screenplay features exceptional dialogue. The acting is all top-notch. Charlize Theron is excellent in her role, and Susan Sarandon does the most she can with a tiny role as Jones' wife. The rest of the cast is solid, but it's Jones who steals the show with a complex, brooding and brilliant performance that should absolutely earn him a Best Actor Academy Award Nomination come Oscar time. All in all, 'In the Valley of Elah' was great minus a few flaws. Many people say the film is too heavy-handed, and I have to agree. The ending was the worst part of the movie, not because of the writing/directing/acting aspect. All three of those components were powerful and moving, the only thing that stunk about the ending was the song choice. We get a heart-wrenching and relevant message at the end to the tune of f__cking whiny Pro-America country music?! Ehh, what's the use in complaining about these small details. For the most part, 'In the Valley of Elah' is an outstanding motion picture that might be on a couple of top 10 lists come the end of the year. You don't want to miss it. Grade: A-