Indeed, a very touching and captivating film!<br /><br />At first thought, this film flashes out like a 'who dun it' thriller, but it gradually dawns on me that the smoking out of the murderer is of lesser importance than the implied warning its story has to unfold. Nope, don't make hasty judgment t and associate this film to some liberal anti-war hogwash until you have seen it! Frankly, I find this film interesting. It intrigues and boggles my mind from start to finish. <br /><br />Does this film serve up any biblical significance? Does it have a connection to that Valley of Elah which was guarded by Azekah, and where Joshua defeated the Amorite kings whose army was further destroyed by a hailstorm? And Azekah was supposed to be the last city that fell to the Babylonians – not forgetting that the city of Babylon was once located in the region known this day as Iraq. Or could this film have anything to do with the Valley of Elah in which David battled Goliath during the occupation of Sochoh and Azekah by the Philistines? Sure, I was, at oft times, reminded of the very young Shepherd – very much the same age as Emily's son, David - using a slingshot and five stones, and credibly far from being a good match against the well-equipped Giant! <br /><br />Tommy Lee Jones fits his role to a tee. As Hank Deerfield, a proud and meticulously organized retired army veteran and patriot, his presence fills screen after screen with emotional persuasion to lead the audience through an astonishingly thought-provoking journey. Hank, in his persistence to find his missing son, commands the audience to look at the realities and repercussions of the contemporary war. As Hank salvages through his dead son's possessions and through his interviews with his son's peers, the story gradually unfolds the situational consequences confronting young soldiers. A scene - with Zoe Karzan's Angie pleading for help from Charlize Theron's Emily while Hank awaits his turn to speak to Emily.- is ever so heart-wrenchingly memorable. The final plight of Angie is also worthy of remembering. <br /><br />War zones are populated by civilians who could be friends or foes, making soldiers easy targets for the kill! Brave and good soldiers are perpetually faced with having to kill or be killed. And that's the reality each one of them has to live with. But, what if fallen victims are simply innocent civilians at the wrong place, at the wrong time? This film paints a very credible picture of good, brave soldiers tortured by self-guilt and trauma. But do they ever find solace and comfort from their superiors for overcoming their traumatic experiences, psychological problems and mental illness? <br /><br />It is not difficult to relate all courageous soldiers to the biblical David, left on the battlefields to fight the enemies who seem to have greater advantages. But, is their story like the biblical tale of David vs. Goliath in which victory is sung but failures are being, perhaps, swept under the rug. Doesn't this film make one wonder if there were other youths sent before David to face the Giant at the Valley of Elah and who did die or become maimed without their stories revealed? This film lists several 'David' characters. Are we supposed to think of the many Davids who fought wars, but whose heroic deeds are never individually recorded in history? The awkward scene of Hank telling the bedtime story of David and Goliath tends to support several of my thoughts about this film. <br /><br />Hank's journey does draw my attention to the importance of recognizing every soldier's welfare over those who egoistically and selfishly honor victories without much ado about the human cost of war and over those who cover up failures. Oh, I do love the character, Emily. Theron presents her character beautifully, surging up my hope and optimism of seeing those who do still abide by their moral conscience and make wise choices and decisions. Susan Sarandon's Joan comes across the screen well to remind the audience of the many unspoken and suffering mothers who have lost sons and daughters to the wars. All the supporting actors, too, have given terrific performances despite their brief, yet very relevant appearances. They superbly fit into the scenes without over-shadowing the performance of the film's antagonist, but to allow him to drive home his messages to the audience. Yep, it's impossible not to give full attention to Hank with every step he undertakes. <br /><br />It is not hard to capture Hank's disillusion with the War as he uncovers the facts revolving around the distressed or psychologically affected survivors. Has he the right to shove the blame of his son's murder on to others than those who actually commit the acts of murdering? This film succeeds in raising questions on the causes and effects of wars, triggering implied caution and reminder to those harboring hasty wars in heavily populated nations where soldiers risk their lives, only to become displaced persons. Will warmongers be willing to weigh morally and ethically the human costs of wars over the hope for glory and victory? Is victory only associated with those unscathed and unblemished by wars while the maimed, the dead, and the mentally displaced are being swept under the carpets? This powerful film serves up food for thought. Two thumbs up for Writer/Director Haggis. Once again, he has cleverly created a film that tests the audience's thinking process!