A yakuza mob leader, Beat Takeshi, is told by his clan's head boss to go to Okinawa to straighten out a war between two factions. Something leaves Takeshi disturbed when he and his men notice that the situation isn't as terrible as they were led to believe and that the two supposedly warring factions appear to be barely fighting at all. A feeling of being set-up comes over Takeshi and his men leading to their excommunication from their clan in Tokyo.<br /><br />As the Anan clan increases it's grip on the other clan supported by Takeshi, they flee to a beach where they remain safe for a while. But, despite their having fun while wasting away the hours, it's only a matter of time before the path of violence and death will escalate.<br /><br />I think the film's main strength is the beach sequences in the middle of the film as we watch human beings letting loose and enjoying themselves as they wait for word from their bosses in Tokyo and Okinawa. We see them setting up pothole traps for each other, shooting bottle-rockets at each other, playing a fake game of Russian Roulette, and shooting their guns at Frisbees. They are able, for this short amount of time, to escape the blood-shed and fear of being immersed in yakuza culture. Here is where Takeshi Kitano can provide proof that he is a great filmmaker with an artist's touch showing that these members of a violent organization are human. A constant in Kitano's films is the absurd humorous flourishes which makes his characters unique. We see the explosions of violence followed by the quite close-ups of calm faces dealing with what just happened. We can understand that dying is always on the minds of the yakuza and Takeshi's group are always expecting something to happen. The beach at least provides them temporary solace from what will soon occur..their violent paths in life will come calling for them. You just can not escape who you are no matter how far away you go or the location of where you go..your shadow follows you.<br /><br />Interesting element in the film also is the love interest provided to Takeshi and how this flirtation with a possible normal life is simply that..a flirtation. The ending shows the final confrontation between Takeshi and the yakuza clan who betrays him because the turf he patrolled and ran was the most profitable. The final statement from Takeshi, I believe, states his yakuza boss just wishes for the madness to end and that it will have to be done alone in a car on some barren, wide stretch of road away from the cities that occupy the violence he has represented for so long.