There's not that much more I can say that hasn't already been said, but that said, I have to say this is one of the best sports movies ever! Even beyond that, it's a great movie even if you don't like sports or baseball. (But you may after you watch this movie.) Of course, 1st kudo's go to Billy Crystal for his brilliant and loving direction of a very accurate story of the 1961 home run race. It's obvious to anyone that he very carefully made this movie to reflect his love of the Yankess, Mantle & Maris and above all, baseball.<br /><br />Next "award" would have to go to the screenwriter, Hank Steinberg. He does an OUTSTANDING job of keeping the story line moving, of telling an accurate story- being able to include details that lend authenticity to the movie. (Like how Mickey injured his knee & his father dying and his feeling that he wouldn't live long enough to regret how he treated his body.) He keeps us laughing, despite the seriousness of Maris' difficulties with the public and press during that year. Even people sending death threats in the "fan mail!" In a scene that makes me laugh every time, Maris makes his famous (or infamous) "eggs." I say "eggs" because they are green. He dumps a pile on Mantle's plate who looks at them & says, "What the hell's that?!" to which roommate Bob says, "Roger's special eggs" and Mickey says, "that's disgusting!" Roger tells Mick, last few times he ate them, he got home runs. Mickey tries them & says even though they're sh*t, he's in a slump & will try anything. There's another scene where someone threatens to kidnap one of Maris' kids while Mickey is over there for a barbecue. After he leaves, we see a late nite Mickey apparently with a few drinks in him, calling home to check on his own children at 2:30am. My point to all this is, whether these little side scenes are true or not, they are totally in keeping with the characters, the story line and the personality of the real people. AND he manages to get many of the facts in without seeming like a documentary. Hank's screenplay shows both men & their flaws, but doesn't dwell on them, because the story isn't about Mickey's drinking or Roger's homelife as much as it is about the 1961 race. He includes these things, not shying away or sugar-coating them, but he just makes them part of the people in the story--- not the story itself. This screen play is truly outstanding in everyway. The music by Marc Shaiman is very well done & appropriately moving as well.<br /><br />And the performances by everyone are great! Thomas Jane as Mickey and Barry Pepper as Maris are not only similar-looking to the real people, they have both managed to emulate them without resorting to cheaply imitating them. (For another example, see Cate Blanchett in The Aviator as Kate Kepburn- it's difficult to play a famous person so well known without seeming to just do an impersonation.) The supporting cast is truly supporting. Bruce Gill as the Yankee's manager, Jennifer Crystal Foley as Maris' wife (yes, she's Billy's daughter, but her performance stands on its own. Interestingly to me, she looks a bit like Mantle's real life wife.) Richard Masur as the one reporter who isn't an ass. This movie does make you feel- you feel involved and care about the people in it. In one of the final scenes when Maris finally seems to get the support from the fans he deserves, you can almost feel yourself sigh in relief.<br /><br />In the end this movie is about friendship, loyalty, respect and yes, baseball. One reviewer said this isn't a family movie because there is some language & innuendo. I'd agree it's PG-13, but hey, if you kid is in the room during the evening news, there's sensational violence and no morality- this movie has honor. Don't be afraid to watch it with any kid that is smart enough to get it. I'd like to end with a quote from the movie towards the end, when one of the reporters asks Maris, "do you think you earned their (the fans) respect holding up under all this pressure?" Maris says, "Oh gosh, I really don't think that's something you earn on a ball field." Too true. And both Roger & Mickey knew that. So did this films creative father, Billy Crystal. 5 out of 5 stars. GREAT FILM!!