From the getgo, this movie seemed to recieve a lot of bashing, simply for the fact that it was a bout the Yankees. Whoever isn't a die hard Yankee fan, hates them more than anything. This leaves no room to be open to what a truly wonderful and moving piece of work this is.<br /><br />There are really many things that are all put together to make this such a great film. The acting all around is first class, with great performances by young actors barry pepper and thomas jane. In addition Bruce MgIlls and Christopher McDonald do a wonderful job. However, what makes their acting come to life and so engrossing is the story they tell. Billy Crystal takes baseball back to its more glorious roots, the only two true home run races in baseball's history. What made Marri's and Mantle's chase of the mighty Ruth's record such a brilliant story to tell is because Babe Ruth is a baseball god, and seemed to have an ever present feeling in Yankee stadium. When Maris surpasses Ruth's record in 61' it was the fall of baseballs mightiest record, and the beginning of a new one. Crystal captures what it seems like every feeling and emotion of the magic in that year, and what was ultimantly the triumph of one baseball player over all odds.<br /><br />The other, smaller potion of this film that is almost soul stirring is the brilliant editing of MgWire's 61 and 62 home runs to open and close the movie. Even years after, hearing Joe Buck call the short shot to the left field corner still sends chills up and down my back. That is a truly emotional moment in baseball and Crystal uses that in the most effective way, closing out his movie with the new home run champion acknowledging and respecting the former, which pays tribute to both the past and present.<br /><br />No, there will never be another movie made about Barry Bond's breaking MgWire's record because he, in truth never did. He never earned anything, and i would rather be dragged out and shot than watch a two hour movie on how someone jams a needle into their ass every day to hit the ball 500 feet. That isn't baseball. This movie is baseball. It's what baseball was and what baseball is really all about.