This is a wonderful film, and beautiful film to look at. It will be a film that should make people want to visit Vermont. I however can only give it 7 out of 10, even though I would like to give it more.<br /><br />The film has what I consider some flaws, which hurt its entertainment value. It starts out really well, however after John Forsythe meets with Shirley MacLaines character, the film somewhat slows down and can be at times tedious. I think that one of the problems with the film is that even at 99 minutes it is a little too long to keep the joke going. Some have suggested that the film was his precursor to his Alfred Hitchcock presents TV series, and I honestly think that it would have been better their. However, being that Color TV was not yet around, you can't beat the beautiful color of the film, and the Vista Vision images.<br /><br />The film is however interesting in many different ways. First, the film could not have been made some 10 to 20 years earlier. First the feeling by Edmund Gwen and John Forsythe characters animosity to the police, and also the sexual innuendo's in the film. Forsythe telling Maclanes character how he would like to paint her in the nude, as well as Gwen saying how he wants to cross Natwicks threshold. Another writer has also mentioned how their are other references to a sexual act with Natwick's character, and I do believe that Natwick and Gwen are the real stars of the film.<br /><br />The Natwick and Gwen characters have been repressed people. Natwick's character (she says she's 42, but Natwick was about 55 at the time of release of the film) appears to have never had a sexual experience before, and now with this Captain, played by Gwen, who we learn has distorted his past accomplishment, love might come to these two people. These two people who believe that they are responsible for Harry's death, actually have a life affirming event happen by the death of Harry. Even though Natwick does claim to Gwen that the only reason she has invited him over, is because of the convenience of Gwens presence at the time of Harry death. This explains why she behaves so strangely when she meets Gwen with Harry's body.<br /><br />However, I do not think that Hitchock and the writers of this story are so confident that this will be a life affirming even for Forsythe and MacClaines characters. First, in the end, One of the last lines in the film regarding her son by Forsythe, and then his correction makes you wonder if he will be this good father. Maclanes behavior when seeing Harry (her 'no good husband') dead, and right in front of her son, makes you wonder about her too. They also decide to involve their son in this charade. What kind of lesson is Jerry Mather's character going to get from them. Who knows, maybe he was really adopted by the Cleaver family (Leave it to Beaver) from what could be the dysfunctional family that both Forsthe and MacLaine formed.<br /><br />One could also look at Trouble With Harry as a agreement with High Noon. People who may not really want to do the right thing, for sexual reasons in this film, and distrust in the police, and fear of them. Fear of police being one of Hitchcocks themes. I couldn't imagine the Gary Cooper character in High Noon getting any help from the two male leads in this film. Also look at that doctor, first so preoccupied, stumbling over the dead body twice, and not being aware, and then confronted with the police, running away, perhaps in fear of his life if he were to divulge the truth, or not wanting to get involved, which is perhaps a comment about general society. People not wanting to get involved perhaps a comment about 1950's McCarthy era.<br /><br />This is a rich comedy, though a very dark one indeed. The door that swings open at times I think representing the characters consciousness,and that only Gwen seems to be bothered by it, does not bode well for the other characters, especially the younger one. The other characters of the store owner, and Deputy are also interesting as well. While I do feel this film is tedious at times, it is a very interesting film, and perhaps much deeper than people imagine.