This sequel was dismal to say the least. The new Paige definitely can't act and I can't believe she is now in a Prince & Me 3 and 4. Huh? With such poor ratings in this one, why? It is the same old story, nothing new brought to the screen. One big fairytale. How does a normal girl fit into a world full of royals and the responsibilities that go along with it. She will make some big mistakes, yet in the end, the Prince will see all past that and say that he loves her, and live happily ever after. Oh yeah, in the beginning, they will be all fairytale and lovey dovey and then of course, not to bore us out of our wits with boredom of their lovey dovey, everything is grand kind of thing, there will be somebody who wants the crown and tries to spoil it for the happy couple only weeks before the wedding. Big shocker there! This time it is a girl in the name of Kirsten. She acts all sweet to Paige and Edvard but secretly trying to spoil things for Paige so she has some major stuffups. But Kirsten didn't need to try as Paige could make stuffups without help. Yes, the same thing happened in Princess Diaries, but at least you got to warm to Princess Mia. In this one, it seems to be all about revenge, that in this movie by the end, you don't care if Paige marries Edvard or not. He could've married Kirsten and I still would be happy.<br /><br />In the end of course, Kirsten is humiliated, ( a lot of copying from other movies) and Edvard and Paige are married. Okay, some rehashing of old stories can sometimes be good, but that is where the actors really need to shine and make you fall in love with them like I did in The Princess Diaries. This story however, is not much different to the Princess Diaries, and "What a girl wants" movies put together. In Prince & Me 2, I couldn't warm to Kam?? Maybe it was the whole cast's poor acting abilities, except for Kirsten. (She would be my reason for giving this movie a 2 instead of 1) She was the best person of the movie, she at least had a bit of personality. Maybe not the best, but at least she had something. Definitely a B grade movie.