Okay, so "Bee Movie" is not up to the animated magnitude of "Ratatouille," the other animated movie about creatures we hate and fear the most, but are made in benign form thanks to these movies, but it is entertaining and will leave a smile on your face.<br /><br />Welcome back, Jerry Seinfeld. We missed you after 9 years of your legendary sitcom bearing your last name as the title. We still catch up with you on reruns and buy your DVD sets and never stop laughing. Jerry, your character, Barry B. Benson, I'd say, is a filmlike version of your TV persona. Both Barry and Jerry from TV are neurotics trying to figure out how to make it in society aided and abetted by friends and relatives.<br /><br />In Bee Movie Jerry has his cast working well with him. They are Matthew Broderick as his best pal Adam, Renee Zellweger as a human florist named Vanessa Bloome who realizes that bees have a purpose in life and are not out to hurt others, Seinfeld guest regular Patrick Warburton as Vanessa's bee-allergic boyfriend who wants to kill Barry, Kathy Bates and Barry Levinson as Barry's worrywart parents (and both sport glasses), and Chris Rock as a mosquito named Mooseblood. Throw in cameos by Oprah Winfrey as the no-nonsense Judge Bumbleton, John Goodman as the opinionated lawyer Layton Montgomery, and Sting, Larry King and Ray Liotta as themselves. Of course, there is the unforgettable Barry B. Benson, a graduate of the hive who becomes a lawyer and wants to rid the human race of stealing their honey, but after a courtroom trial, he would learn the hard way the true meaning of life of a bee.<br /><br />As in so many animated movies, all the actors are recognizable playing characters that best match their TV and screen personas, so you will have no trouble identifying them. It is best for Jerry to play a neurotic bee so the character would be convincing. See that? Now some of the jokes may go over the kids' heads, like why would Ray Liotta want to wipe out the bee race by stealing honey and putting his name on it as the brand, in a reference to Ray Liotta's movie roles as heavies. Otherwise, kids would enjoy the sweet nature of it and adults would pick up on in-jokes.