Chuck Norris' films aren't things you call masterpieces, but more often they're fun and deliver good rollicking action. James Frago's "Forced Vengeance" (who directed Eastwood in "The Enforcer") is no exception to the trend, and is a raw, full-blooded Norris' chop-suey extravaganza. No surprises here, as it's basic (and campy) revenge on mind for Norris. The simple set-up is made up of expertly-executed martial arts set-pieces that are spontaneously well-timed and judged. It can be welcomely brutal and rough, but quite unintentionally obtuse. The opening silhouette stash in front of a neon sign was a neat touch, and William Goldstein's (no not Goldsmith) exhilaratingly flighty score takes shape. There's something about his early films, I found to be more enticing than a lot of his latter, popular mainstream efforts. Sure they might not be as well organised or impressionable as his well-known flicks but this different kettle has certain sincereness about them. The gritty action takes place in Hong Kong, and it's vividly projected with the exotically moody setting and street life being expansively brought to life. Director James Frago does a serviceable job. As I mentioned earlier the premise doesn't break any new ground, and is rather slight. It's a dog eat dog world, and Norris is on the underdog side and takes on the corrupt. Norris even gets his chance to provide another deeply thoughtful narration (ala The Octagon) that I found humorously pointless. Before he goes on his forced rampage (Chuck style!), he goes about collecting information, so when he gets down to business he takes out the right men. But another unsavoury reason comes into play, and this releases the fury waiting to explode, as it does push the motivation for vengeance behind Chuck's character even more. Watch out, as now you're going to get an ass-kicking! The staggering script is filled with constant corn, and Norris' delivers the majority of it. However his sly remarks actually satisfy and it just wouldn't be the same without them. As for the performances, well it's expected that we get something wooden within the acting range. Chuck Norris geared up in his cowboy hat, and suit with those boyish looks is stoic as usual. But that in mind, he knows his element and has a durably raw appeal that makes him utterly watchable. Mary Louise Weller is perfect as Norris love interest, and Bob Minor provides wonderful support as an ex-army buddy. Michael Cavanaugh makes for a fine sinister bad guy, and has a terrific boat-top confrontation with Norris. <br /><br />Watch it for a good, relaxing time of utter beat-ups and laughs. This is one I'll never tire of, especially Norris fans.