This, as well as his other masterpiece Solamente Nero, continue a Movie tradition called Giallo in Italy, and at the same time contribute with new and interesting elements. What I like about Bido style is that there is always a subtle comment on something deeper thrown in than just going after the killer, at least in a better way than Bava and Argento might put in if they ever did so. In Solamente Nero, it was about Religion and Guilt. This time is about justice and betrayal. I think this movie works at the beginning as a giallo, and at the end backwards as a vigilante movie, when we realize what the whole thing was about. Another interesting thing about Bidos Gialli is what I would define with a line from an Argento movie: " The fact is that our very lives are governed by dead people". In other words, in Bidos Work, whatever happens in the future, is because the characters could not escape their past. In the end those who do wrong find themselves with only one way out their destiny. Is how they say : " If you want things done right, do it yourself". Chronologically, this is the first movie I have seen with Paolo Malco in it, without the beard and moustache that we saw in Lo squartattore di New York or Quella Villa Accanto di Cimenterio. Franco Citti, a regular in Pier Paolo Pasolinis films, plays the key suspect for the murders, but we only get to see him twice very briefly. Could it be perhaps because such an award winning actor could not stain his reputation doing those vulgar gialli? Do not Know, but while most of the people condemn the acting in this movie, I find him to be the only one to condemn.<br /><br />The version currently circulating in DVD is dark and grainy, and not to be compared with the one a different company made of Solamente Nero. Everything is anglicized, and I bet you there is also stuff missing. What they should do is to make available in cd this and Solamente Neros sountrack. For locations and sountrack, you leave Bava and whoever else and go Bido. Trans Europa Express sounds both jazzy and progressive, and I am sorry I have not been able to find anything from them yet.<br /><br />In an interview included as an extra in Solamente Nero DVD, Bido said that he just had finished a Giallo script, and was trying to put it into film. With Argento still working in the genre ( he recently did a real good one called NonHoSonho) I hope it comes back and we have choice other than Scream, the Blair Witch Project and all of those stupid teenager so called " horror" movies.