Watch Me When I Kill, or if you like, The Cat's Victims or The Cat With The Jade Eyes is hardly one of the most notable of gialli, enough of a cultish success to get a spiffy looking remastered release in the UK though. I enjoyed it more than the more hardcore giallo buffs seem to have done though it has its share of problems. The film follows Mara, who stops off to go to a pharmacy, but ends up overhearing a killer and thus ends up trying to puzzle out whodunit along with her boyfriend, afraid that she might be in the killers sights. The film moves along for near half its length without really getting into what the deal is behind the killing but director Antonio Bido handles things with quiet style and keeps the film ever watchable, with a sense of mystery that makes the unfolding revelations all the more satisfying. Though in some ways predictable the plot is worked out in solid fashion with a punchy and satisfying finale and while the pace is a bit slow there are enough notable moments to smooth the ride. Murders are fairly few in this one and not gory, the film does however include an absolute rip-snorter of a strangulation sequence, one of the best examples of such slaying I've ever seen in fact. The other kills are nicely done, suspenseful but not spectacular and helped tremendously by an ace, Goblin aping score from Trans Europa Express. The films main drawback is that whilst various elements position it as a giallo the original intention was a serious minded dramatic mystery (the script went through a number of rewrites to make it into a marketable giallo) and so it never really manages to be as tense, twisted or exuberant as the genre calls for. At the same time the giallo stylings dilute the intention of making a more serious film so its more artistic leanings (the odd section set in Padua) end up being fun but out of place. It basically needed a little more on all fronts, more twists, kills and character development. I still had a fine time with it though, Antonio Bido has a good eye and easy command of his art, crafting some cracking moments, and Corrado Pani and Paola Tedesco make for an appealing couple of leads. Though uneven, I was left pretty pleased by the end, it satisfied my craving for some Italian thriller fun pretty nicely. Which is all that counts when it comes right down to it. Far from essential then, but definitely worth at least checking out for genre completists or those particularly curious about it.