I saw this one on TV on a weekend, when I was cleaning house and had the tube on, and it started, and I watched a few minutes of it, and I thought, OK, I want to see what happens to this wretch of a girl. I think she played the part brilliantly. Eddie really loves his girl. The thought that him and this girl are going to procreate...>shudder< but the little girl turns out really cute, sweet and unbelievably normal in the end...more on this later... I liked the way they went up to the restaurant when it was pouring down rain and just asked for food... that was pretty cool...seemed old fashioned. I also thought the way Eddie was getting edgier and edgier as the film went on and finally broke was played well, and the fact that he had no clue he was gone so long...he seemed like he really didn't have ONE CLUE about what was going on. Then comes the day when he gets let out and here is where the film actually struck a raw nerve with me. He gets out. The girl has been married to this other guy for like 10 years, and Eddie comes back, and she's like, OK this is your Daddy, THIS guy we've been living with all your life is NOT your dad...he's your two sister's dad, but NOT yours. And this poor little girl has to absorb all of this AND meet the guy and he has to tell her and it gets all emotionally draining way too much way too fast. (There goes the normal life!!!) And then the mom LEAVES WITH EDDIE!!!! WTF???? SHe has been married to this guy for 10 years, has cleaned up her life and was living in a wonderful house and had a wonderful life, and then she leaves(leaving her husband of 10 years and her kids behind!!)and goes with this bonehead. In a way, it was beautiful that,I guess, her love for him never died. But it came across as shrill and like she just 'used' him all those years until her 'true' love came along. I guess she never knew the meaning of 'moving on' or 'getting over him'. Maybe this film is just too 'real' for me because I personally have dealt with this same thing.(I was the little girl in a similar, but not quite the same situation) Not to such an extreme degree, and it just grated my nerves. It was weird, different, and unforgettable, but I wish I could!