This is one of the weirdest and most original films I have seen in a very long time. The film is about a post-apocalyptic future, though the future looks an awful lot like France circa 1950 (as well as having burned out hulks of buildings and the sky is brown). The set design and costumes look very much like the future world of Terry Gilliam's film, BRAZIL. It is supposed to be the future but the design is purely rooted in the past--as if on some alternate reality Earth.<br /><br />In this dystopic world, there isn't much to eat and society has disintegrated. The film is all set in and around a dilapidated apartment building where the tenants all survive thanks to the landlord--who butchers newcomers for the consumption of all!! Despite being a very dark subject, this cannibal fantasy is actually quite funny and charming (that is, apart from when they are hacking the unsuspected into cutlets).<br /><br />Into this sick micro-society comes a rather homely man, Louisan--the next unsuspecting victim. Now that I think about it, this film abounded with strange looking cast members--as if Fellini somehow were involved with the project. However, the landlord's daughter falls for this new guy and is determined to do her best to help this poor guy to escape--even if it means enlisting the aid of the dreaded troglodytes! As you no doubt can tell from the summary, this is one weird and original film. However, had the film not been done with such a light and comedic touch, it would have been yet another schlocky teen blood-feast films. But with the tongue in cheek attitude and lots of wonderfully dark little vignettes, the film is remarkably charming--even if it is about cannibals.<br /><br />Exceptionally well written, amazing visuals (you can't help but be riveted) and a wonderful freshness make this a very enjoyable treat. However, because of the subject matter, I am sure this sick film won't be to everyone's taste! Also, because there are so many clever and small little touches to this film, it sure bears repeated viewing so you can catch it all.