I was rather disappointed by this movie. Why? The reason is pretty much the same as when I went to Prado and afterward visited Reina Sofia. Prado features Velasquez, Goya, Bosch, El Greco... It was very hard for me when I found myself in front of Miro's painting that is called "Sin titulo" (no name). The painting features white canvas and 12 to 15 symmetrical black spots in the bottom left corner. I'm not the kind of guy that dislikes thinking about the movie and interpreting the plot but here there was just too much to interpret. The movie consists of various elements and one of them is the script. If I have to make out more than half of it I prefer writing it myself.<br /><br />When I heard about the movie I thought that the subject was very interesting. I do not understand why it's full potential wasn't used. We just know that they are eating people and see just one little scene of the butcher at work which was, by the way, happening in a dream. He could have had a farm, like there are many for animals, and raise little children which he would be feeding until they got fat enough an then slaughter them and sell their meat. Meanwhile he and the other tenants would make other children (I won't use the word). That would have been hilarious. Also I thought that the chimpanzee could have played a crucial part in this movie considering their cannibalism. They eat other, smaller, monkeys (not out of necessity but for pure pleasure) and they have (if you want to believe yourself a monkey) 98% genetic match with humans. Do not misunderstand me. I hardly ever eat meat and wouldn't kill a fly. But this is a movie and as such has the obligation to use everything that an idea like this has to offer.<br /><br />There is no real comedy here. Monty Python is still the right choice if you want to see some real humor. All the people that use their imagination don't have to go to see a film and imagine 70 percent of it. They can just sit at home and imagine what they want. I am giving it a 4 because of the idea which will hopefully be used by somebody else and made into a great movie which this should have been.