This is a very enjoyable and underrated Swayze revenge film, that's pretty well made, with fantastic performances all around!. All The characters are wonderful, and the story was pretty cool, plus Patrick Swayze is simply amazing in this!. Liam Neeson and Patrick Swazye shared an excellent bond as brothers and had fantastic chemistry together, and i thought Adam Baldwin, was wonderful as the main villain, plus the finale was quite exciting!. Most of the critics panned this, and i can't see why, it's got plenty of action, suspense, and fantastic performances, plus i thought Swayze's acting was fantastic!. The fight between Neeson and Swayze at the bar was very realistic and tense, and this features Ben Stiller in a very different and early role!, plus The ending was very surprising in my opinion!. Sure it may not be exactly original, but i really enjoyed as you care for the main characters,and root for them, plus it has quite a few powerful and shocking moments as well!. This is a very enjoyable and underrated Swayze revenge film. that's pretty well made, with fantastic performances all around!, i highly recommend this one!. The Direction is very good!. John Irvin does a very good job here, with great camera work, good angles and keeping the film at a very fast pace!. The Acting is fantastic!. Patrick Swayze is AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, very convincing, fantastic in the acting department, had excellent chemistry with Liam Neeson, and Helent Hunt, did awesome in his emotional scenes, and was just a lot of fun to watch!. (Swazye Rules!). Liam Neeson is fantastic as the brother, he made a great vigilante, had excellent chemistry with Swayze, was very intense, and was really into his role!, i loved him.Adam Baldwin is wonderful as the main villain, he is extremely sadistic, cold, although that smug smile of his made me want to slap him silly, i hated his character, and he played it really well, one of my favorite performances ever by a villain!. Helen Hunt is very good with what she had to do as Swayze's wife, and had good chemistry with him. Ben Stiller is AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, although he didn't have much screen time, he had a great character, he was so vulnerable, and i just couldn't help but like his character i really felt sorry for him, he rocked! (Stiller Rules!). Andreas Katsulas is good as the father and did what he had to do well. Bill Paxton,Michael J. Pollard and Ted Levine all do great in there small roles. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall i highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5