I watched this movie and I gotta tell you..It is not that disturbing when you finally realize that things can get better even for a messed up family like the one in this movie. What do you think about this mysterious visitor? He hits the father with a rock, goes home with him, eats dinner with him and his family, stays at his place??? What is going on here? My point of view is: I think this mysterious visitor is like a Guardian Angel and was the reason for this bizarre emotional stimulation for the whole family. Father: cares more about his son and wants to do something good for the youth by making a documentary film about sex and violence amongst the youth. Mother: realizes that she is just a woman and starts getting in touch with her inner self by discovering that she can milk herself!! (weird but original). Son: realizes that he has to study harder to pass some important exams (after his folks stood up for him and killed those bullies who've been abusing him all the time). Daughter: after being hit on the head by a rock she gets back to her parents' house to find her parents really closer to each other emotionally and physically (breast-sucking scene). Bottom line is this mysterious visitor has influenced each member of the family to do something good for him/herself or for each other. First he hits the father with a rock twice which makes him - the father - think about how unsafe and brutal his society has become and decides to make a documentary about violence and sex abuse among the youth (the night he was hit on the head he couldn't get much sleep, grabs his camcorder and goes out to his car to watch a film featuring him being sexually abused by a couple of bullies) which later on made him stood up for his son - with the help of his wife - by killing those bullies which led to him finding his long-time buried feelings for his wife. The son wants to be a better person, the daughter comes back home to her parents to re-unite with her family again. This could be the perfect ending for this movie except that they've become murderers and will be caught eventually but they don't seem to care about it in the last scene proving that "Love is all you need in this world"