The problem with any belief (an abstract), dependent on faith (an abstract), is that no concrete evidence is provided. Choosing the belief of any cult, versus one's own belief, is a quandary. An atheist does not believe in any God, whether it be a cult's God or anyone else's concept (an abstract) of God. A concept (which, again, is an abstract) may be confusing or difficult to understand. An agnostic will not accept God, without concrete evidence, but faith-based religious and spiritual systems require an acceptance based on the abstract (such persons believe that their concept of God is rooted in a higher power). God is invisible. Yet, some say that they feel, hear and see God in the nature, the rain and the wind. But, what is the formula? This remains a mystery, in this film, because it is never completely revealed. And, will our world soon end?<br /><br />"Believers" (2007) promotes critical analysis, divergent thinking, introspection, and reflection. Set in a dark, creepy and furtive realm, one can be hypnotized by the bewitching mood and musical score. In Myrick style, this film becomes a masterfully-crafted thriller, effectively supplying anxiety, fear, menace, suspense, and tension. The cult represented, in this film, seems to promote life. Yet, is there life within the shroud of the death scent of Hitler's control and manipulation, his experimentation, coercion, and force? <br /><br />The riveting performance by Daniel Benzali, who plays the Teacher, is at his insidious, evil best. His spellbinding, measured, and haunting tone of voice brilliantly captures the cult's intended mission, fails to reveal--until the end of the film--just how it will carry out. But, the actors and director are faithful to the script, and they do become masters of horror, without most of the blood and all of the gore. The film, beautifully counterbalanced and integrated, seems to show (at least on the surface) pratfalls of blind faith and misdirected trust. All people are born. All people will die. But, what is the eagerness for death, if we never have lived? <br /><br />Because the film asks questions that our finite minds are unable to answer, I rate this film an 8 out of 10. It is entertaining, and the film is good because it makes one infinitely think. The film expands one's horizons beyond earth, heaven, and hell.