Its a shame that this sitcom gem was lost to us due to constant preempting. I've never thought the rating system was all that fair. They should not include moments when prime time shows fall victim to breaking world newscasts, presidential addresses, special mini-series broadcasts, and holiday specials...its just not an accurate assessment of a show's viewer base. That said, maybe some reviewers are right that the audience wasn't 'there' yet, as the D&D gaming crowd was still mostly a little young to fall into the demographic they were shooting for...but I certainly loved it! And pay no heed to the comments of 'Oh Dear, Oh Dear'...that person obviously had no idea that the show wasn't there as a serious attempt to promote D&D to the masses...it was a COMEDY...a silly, camped-up comedy (like "Men In Tights' was to the Robin Hood franchise). And a good one at that! Julia Duffy was so memorable and funny as the spoiled, self-absorbed Princess Ariel that when she re prised that type of role as Stephanie on the 'Newhart', for the first season she was on that show I just saw her as The Princess...and that alone kept me watching 'Newhart'! I was never much a Jeff Conway fan, but the show gave me a better appreciation for him. And the villain stole the scene (or at least what part of it he could pry away from Duffy) every time he took the screen. I always thought his name was Derek Blackpool..to me that seems funnier somehow than Dirk (maybe because it rhymes with Eric?). Perhaps after a couple of decades of having seen it, its like Dark Shadows...you remember it as scarier (or in this case, funnier) than it actually was (and we'll sadly never know now how good it could have been), but I would love to go back and watch it again. I don't recall if it had a laugh track, but I don't think it would have needed one if it is indeed as funny as I recall. I was sad to see it go, and like another poster, didn't realize it was gone until it didn't come back. As a baby-boomer, I'd like to see more pop-culture related sitcoms like this revived rather than more waste-of-time reality shows.