Taking aside when it's edited down for its content and for time, this is really a neat movie to watch when it comes on TV, which- if you have cable- is pretty often. It's also one of the best vehicles for Joe Pesci that was ever made (even if it didn't technically originate with him), and will probably make for part of his great standing as an actor years later through all the other Scorsese movies. It's sometimes very ridiculous- i.e. the suit Vinny wears to Court following no choice, always brilliant- but it's also got a sincerity to it that works. It's original in its characters and dialog even if it always takes some liberties with Southern and New York clichés. The best example of the former would be with the grits part in the courtroom scenes ("no respectable Southerner would make instant grits"). And the cast surrounding Pesci always makes it worth watching. Marisa Tomei- maybe a little unnecessary of an Oscar win- is in her prim here as Vinny's girlfriend-would-be-fiancé who ends up helping him out more than he could've thought. Meanwhile four of the more talented character actors, some seen more than others, bring up the courtroom scenes perfectly- Fred Gwynne as the judge, (the late) Lane Smith as the prosecutor, Bruce McGill as the Sheriff, and Austin Pendleton as a stand-in defense attorney. They bring both professionalism and a few laughs in measure with the very sharp, unpredictable script. That it also sometimes leaves it onto Pesci's shoulders to keep up entertainment wise is not altogether unexpected. But at the end of it all it's a very watchable, endearing piece of work, where the case itself in the story is not as worthwhile as the memorable lines of dialog or the bit players. And there's even a bit of good craftsmanship that goes unnoticed by some in it as well (the first scene at the bar shows this if you look close enough). Whether you've seen it in the theaters or not, it's probably one of the true enjoyable movies to watch on a weekend afternoon with nothing to do.