Rian Johnson, the writer/director of the Dashiell Hammett-inspired 2005 high school noir BRICK, proves he's not a flash in the pan with his new action-comedy-adventure, THE BROTHERS BLOOM (TBB) It's hard for me to sing this movie's praises without giving away its many twists and fun surprises, so let me just say it's a deft blend of quirky, globe-trotting con-man caper, daffy romantic comedy, and surprisingly poignant family dramedy about brothers at a crossroads, not to mention gorgeous to look at with its colorful surroundings and a fashion sense that's hip and sharp without being obnoxious.<br /><br />The whole cast is wonderful, but I was particularly taken by Rachel Weisz and Adrien Brody. Weisz blossoms like a flower filmed in time-lapse photography as Penelope, the lonely heiress who's thrilled to throw herself into the Bloom brothers' shenanigans using the skills she's gleaned from other people's hobbies. I particularly enjoyed her goofy/passionate reactions when she's kissed by Adrien Brody's character, Bloom (that's the only name he's addressed by in the film; it's one of the few things that's never explained), and we realize this is the very first time Penelope has EVER been kissed by ANY man! As Bloom, Brody is a fine match for Weisz, doing a gentle comedic take on the soulful characters he does so well as he finds himself falling in love with Penelope, longing for an "unscripted life" instead of living just to populate the elaborate, "Russian-novel"-like con games created by older, craftier brother Stephen (Mark Ruffalo, an endearingly scruffy rogue). Rinko Kikuchi steals every scene as walking sight gag Bang Bang, so-called because she's a whiz with explosives, practicing on toys cobbled together from old Barbie dolls and other toys.<br /><br />Robbie Coltrane and Maximilian Schell round out the cast quite nicely indeed, particularly Schell's colorful turn as the dangerous Diamond Dog, the Fagin type who taught the brothers everything they know. Admittedly, it would have been nice to know exactly how Penelope talked her way out of the trouble she got into with the Prague police -- another of the aforementioned few things that's never explained. I was left assuming Penelope simply bought her way out of it; she IS rich, after all. :-) Still, the film was so entertaining otherwise, it seems churlish to nit-pick.<br /><br />For those of you who loved BRICK, keep an eye out for some of its cast members, including its femme fatale Nora Zehetner in an early scene. TBB is not only a thoroughly enjoyable con-man movie, but I'd go so far as to say it's the most purely entertaining film Adrien Brody has been in so far (yes, even more so than Peter Jackson's lollapalooza KING KONG remake). It's a miracle TBB actually showed up here in our little burg at all, so look for it in your area. You'll be glad you did!