Its hard to believe that its been ten years since Brandon, Brenda, Dylan, Kelly, Steve, Andrea, Donna and David graduated High School. Its even harder to believe that there was actually a 10 year reunion organised, considering all the rumours of tantrums and infighting between cast members, mainly surrounding Shannon Doherty. That was the main reason I watched this special, to see if any of this came up, but naturally the question about Shannon's behaviour never did, perhaps it wasnt allowed too. I was shocked that Shannon even decided to do this show, seeing as I remember reading an interview with her a few years ago saying that she wouldnt want to do any reunion thing with the rest of the cast. I also remember reading an article about Jennie Garth where she stated that she didnt like Shannon. After viewing the reunion I do believe the latter. At the beginning when they all hugged each other, Shannon and Jennie didnt seem all that friendly towards each other, they hugged, but I think it was more for the cameras. Then when they all sat down Luke Perry sat in the middle of Shannon and Jennie and they barely said anything directly to one another.<br /><br />I was also surprised that Tori Spelling and Brian Austin Green didnt appear on the show, especially Tori seeing as her father did the show and she stayed on it right to the end. I found that a little odd, they should have all been there. It was nice to see the actors who played Mr and Mrs Walsh and Nat turn up right at the end as well.<br /><br />There wasnt that much in the episode, the actors discussed their favourite episodes and moments, what fame was like and some off screen antics like Shannon taking Ian's on screen Corvette for a ride and having a little accident, and Luke accidently running over Jennie with a jet ski, knocking her unconcious. It was nice to see some of the old fashions back in the early 90s as well, oh it was awful.<br /><br />Overall it was good to see the majority of the original cast back, unfortunately it didnt talk about what I and probably what most people wanted to hear about - was there any bad blood between the cast when Shannon walked out 10 years ago and was it all as bad as the magazines portrayed. I think they completely avoided asking these questions, and some of the friendliness was shown just for the cameras IMO. I hardly think that these guys would actually see each other anymore, its obvious that they hadnt seen each other for quite a long time so I doubt they would have remained close friends over the years.