While most hardcore Kim Ki-Duk fans will hate on this for being too 'mainstream', simple, or even over-dramatic, "The Bow" is, as expected from this director, nothing short of genius. Comparisons between this and past KKD films like "3-Iron" or "Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter... and Spring" made by narrow-minded critics is a little unfair, and it's a damn shame.<br /><br />A film set entirely on a lonely fishing boat, "The Bow" is about a 60-year-old man who takes a young, lost, 7-year-old girl in as his own, raises her like a daughter, and makes big plans to marry her when she turns 17. As the day of her 17th birthday approaches, the more and more our naive, young, mute nubile is groped, attacked, and drooled-over by visiting men there to fish. The old man, to protect the girl, wards the men off with his bow, a weapon that is also used as a kind of hypnotic musical instrument (based on the Er-hu) many times throughout the film. The bow protects and soothes her as the boat distances her from outside evils. Despite it's odd moments, life is perfect and simple for our couple, until a young man our heroine's age boards the ship and intrigues her with his caring disposition, his kind face, and his knowledge of the modern world outside of the boat. What is to come is a suspenseful tale of jealousy, trust, possessive love, and innocence.<br /><br />Nothing can describe the confusing mix of emotions I felt watching "The Bow" very late at night/early in the morning this week. A story of an aging man raising a young girl to be his future wife is kind of hollow, with little depth, thanks to it's use of very little dialogue, but Kim Ki-Duk's masterful story-telling makes up for it, relying heavily on subtle, yet convincing physical expression, and some help by a great soundtrack, and breath-taking cinematography. With absolutely no spoken dialogue between our two main characters and a series of bizarre incidents (see the way the old man and his girl read fortunes), I was left out to sea to piece "The Bow's" puzzle together on my own, no one or nothing to help guide me wrap my head around this mysterious couple, experiencing ever-changing and intense feelings of anger, disgust, wonder, and, ultimately, sadness. As you can see, this is really no different from what's expected of Mr. Kim Ki-Duk, as he reminds us how confusing and cruel both love and life are, and we can never be able to entirely control either one.<br /><br />The ending to "The Bow" makes some unexpectedly touches on the super-natural briefly, which may throw some viewers into a quirky loop, but our director pulls it off most gracefully, without being too over-the-top. The old man decides to set his girl free in the most shocking way one could imagine, leaving us to question his seemingly selfish motives.