Akira Toriyama has pulled our legs again people! It looks like the end of Dragonball GT just wasn't the finisher he wanted us to believe! Special time! So let's start with the period this little movie is set in, it's almost been 100 years and the rest of the Z fighters are dead, yes, even Vegeta, Trunks, Goten, you name it there all gone except for Pan( oh brother!). Pan is a grandmother who is raising her grandson, Goku Jr., to become as good a fighter as his great-great grandfather Goku was. So Goku Jr. huh? So who's his parents? No answer. Would his father or mother be on Pan's side of the family? No answer. Okay, but just where the heck are his parents? Dead? I guess. Why? Again no answer. And wait, just who did Pan marry anyway? Again no answer. This whole special is filled with unanswered questions regarding this new character and even his grandmother. But that's okay, maybe his traits will do? Not much from him that is that interesting, although you could feel sad for the kid, as early on in the movie Pan collapses onto the floor and is taken to a hospital where of course, they can't do much for her. This is touching and so are the scenes where Goku Jr. goes on his own quest for self indulgence and how to be a stronger fighter, that and gather a dragon ball to wish his grandmother's health. Okay, that's not a bad idea. But the question I have to ask is why care the most for Pan? Sure she's all he's got, but early on in this movie she does nothing but force Goku Jr. to become stronger, gee old lady maybe the kid doesn't want to be a fighter and could have other ideas in mind for his future? Sadly Pan doesn't see it that way and keeps telling her Grandson to fight rather than repeat the whole "sticks and stones" concept at bullies. But hey, it's a franchise dedicating to fighting, so let's not get so hypocritical...<br /><br />So what happens along Goku Jr.'s path? Well apparently one of the bullies he knows from school helps him, they encounter some lame villains, and he makes friends with two grizzly bears.<br /><br />And of course there's this sad ending where Goku Jr. cries all because the dragon ball didn't grant his wish, soon a figure appears before him, it's his great-great grandfather Goku! What advice has he got for the kid "keep fighting, you're a great fighter", again with the fighting! Can't this Goku Jr. kid be given a break for once and told that he can do whatever he sets his heart to? Nope, that's not how it works, sorry kid fighting is in your blood, so fight more, pay less! Goku also tells him that he needs to collect seven dragon balls before he can make his wish for his grandmother's health to be better. So does Pan gets better? Oh of course she does and she and Goku Jr.'s bully now turn friend are now in a jeep traveling to his destination, but sadly Goku is now completely out of the picture.<br /><br />You know? This movie makes me view Goku in a different light now, he is a runaway who's lazy. I mean come on, he didn't help Pan throughout her life, didn't show up to anyone else's special events in their life before they died, and this dude wasn't even dead like in the Buu saga for Pete's sake. So when his granddaughter Pan gets sick, he's not there for her yet he is there for his great-great grandson, that's helpful but still proves that he's a lazy runaway. He did run away from his family and why did he do this? To train, and for what? Nothing, just nothing unless he's very paranoid about the future, which could be said as the case.<br /><br />One last little question, why the heck does Stephanie Nadolny voice every character relating to Goku if he's supposed to be a kid? Don't get me wrong, she's very talented, but come on the people producing this movie's dub could've gone with a more unique voice for Goku Jr.<br /><br />This movie isn't quite stale bread but boy isn't it the under achiever. It's boring, it's overrated, and it's nothing but wheat.<br /><br />Drop this and go watch the other Dragonball/Z specials, they're better for you.