Cannibal Apocalypse is an important Italian horror film as it marks the successful fusion of the two most successful Italian sub-genres; zombies and cannibals. The plot follows a vicious virus brought back to America by three soldiers returning from Vietnam; only it's not your usual virus. Instead of turning it's victims into mindless zombies; it leaves the afflicted aware of their situation, albeit with a hunger for human flesh. Cannibal Apocalypse isn't the movie that you would expect it to be. Even though it's been cut and banned many times, the gore isn't all that nasty, or frequent; with only a few sequences really hitting the 'disgusting' mark. The film is much more intelligent than the usual cannibal nonsense, as it explores themes such as Vietnam veterans returning into society, and turns the tables on Dawn of the Dead's social commentary. It analyses it's points with a sly grin on it's face, however, and it's clear that none of the points are being made with any real conviction; but Antonio Margheriti has shown with previous movies (Dance Macabre, The Virgin of Nuremberg) that he's too clever for merely making a movie about cannibals - and that's the main reason why Cannibal Apocalypse offers more.<br /><br />The film benefits massively from the presence of John Saxon. This hardworking and criminally underrated actor leads the film with relish, and adds massively to the final spectacle; even if the man himself refuses to see this film. He is joined by cult actor Giovanni Lombardo Radice, who has worked with many of the great Italian directors, including the likes of Lucio Fulci, Umberto Lenzi and Michele Soavi. The plotting of the film is well paced, and despite a few lapses; is generally exciting throughout. Tributes to Dawn of the Dead, along with Fulci's Zombi 2 are rampant throughout; the best, of which being a sequence inside a flea market - good stuff! Margheriti's direction is as assured, as you would expect, and even if he's not quite an Argento or Bava; he's definitely among the elite of the lesser-known Italian directors. The fact that this movie is mostly set in a city sets it apart from most of the rest of the cannibal films, which tend to take place in the jungle. On the whole, this certainly isn't one of the best movies ever made; but it's a lot of fun, and won't disappoint fans of Italian horror. Recommended.