This film is nice as a step out of the usual backgrounds or settings for movies. And whilst it is in the main part shot in rain forest, it is most certainly not boring in any way.<br /><br />I notice there have been comments by others about certain mystical aspects in the film being too far fetched, but i can assure they are not. Following this, it is quite understandable that if someone watches this and has a limited understanding of reality and the mind - they may find certain aspects of the film slightly frustrating and/or overly convenient to be true. An example here is the art of merging with spirits who take on certain archetypal forms, such as an eagle or leopard. These are very ancient shamanic methods used to attain knowledge, power and healing abilities and are not a crazy load of made up stuff by the director. I have personally had many similar experiences to some in the film - example: once some way through a year long shamanic training, i lay on my bed and merged with a spirit and found myself as the form of an eagle (as was usual with this spirit). I had asked the spirit to take me to a gorgeous girl i had met in London a few weeks before, as i regretted never asking for her phone number after having to rush for a train. I found myself flying above London and eventually landed in leicester square where the spirit told me i should go. I finished the journey, left my house, got on the train and went to leicester square. The first person i talked to (a guy doing the charity stuff on the street) turned out to be one of the flat-mates of the girl! Einstein said 'co-incidences are God's way of remaining anonymous'. The point of this story is that the mystical stuff in Emerald Forest is factual. And it is not confined to rainforests, but in fact can be and is used in modern cities - ha ha and not just to save tribes but sometimes God willing to get girlfriends! Then also the idea that sickness (in the films case, a severe fever from enemy tribal poison), can be sucked out of someone in it's elemental energetic form- this is also ancient practise which traditionally one is merging with a helpful spirit to gain powerful protection beforehand - as is demonstrated in the film. All the mystical stuff is indeed actually down to earth, factual and to be embraced.<br /><br />And this is one particular thing which brings beautiful harmony to The Enchanted Forest - it is not just down to earth because of it's setting, because of good actors and acting or because of a good story - but because it has not been afraid to remain true to another part of life, inherent in the films settings and culture. That which perhaps seems overly mystical to the average western mind. For me it seemed nothing had been left out of the film, as often is the case in order to meet the wishes of studios, who only care about their profit and not the wealth of the film itself as a branch of art.<br /><br />Bear in mind that the whole film is based on a true story and really how can you go wrong? Adventurous, beautiful scenery, good acting, good characters, based on true story, unusual spiritual elements, emotional and action plus a good eco message leaving you wishing the whole world would watch it.<br /><br />Enjoy!