I enjoyed this movie for the most part. NO SHOCKING SURPRISES, like in some other wicked evil movies released lately. This movie was not as good as "Pirates Of Caribbean", so you will be disappointed if you are expecting one of the best movies ever, like Pirates was. But it is a good family film, for ages above 5 or 6 anyway.<br /><br />There are a couple of scary parts that might frighten young children. I was scared a little when the mummies were chasing Eddie and his daughter in the crypt for the key, and the spiders crawling all over the crypt door freaked me out a little! ALSO, when Terrence Stamp summoned Satan up from hell (I think that's who it was, it was a demon or devil made of fire), that part was also scary somewhat. (It looked like the EXACT same Satan as in the movie "Spawn", which was scarier and grosser than this movie was.)<br /><br />In my opinion, Jennifer Tilly was the BEST! I really enjoyed seeing and hearing her as the Gypsy in the crystal ball. That was great SFX too! I thought Terrence Stamp was good as a really creepy butler, and sorta scary also. I thought Eddie Murphy was OK, a little annoying, maybe he was written that way. The butler in the film says he can't stand to listen to Eddie talk anymore, it is getting on his nerves, well... That is exactly how I was feeling too! Eddie was getting on my nerves a little. I thought the kids were cute, VERY REFRESHING, after watching the horrible movie "Cat N Hat", where the kids were obnoxious horrible brats! Their mom was beautiful, seemed so sweet, had such a beautiful smile, she was really a stunning woman. I believe her name was Marsha Thomason. She Definitely looked like a movie star. Wallace Shawn was funny too. The statues singing barbershop quartet were really great effects, I really enjoyed them. The ghosts looked good also. <br /><br />If you have a family with kids, who don't have nightmares too easily, then I recommend this film. This was a good movie for teenagers too. If you buy "Pirates of Caribbean" DVD, you get a free matinee ticket to see this film, so you might like this better if you have a free ticket!!! I think Disney Studios should really consider turning this movie over to Jerry Bruckheimer Productions in a few years, and let them remake it. It would be interesting to see if he turns it into a Great Movie Classic, like "Pirates Of Caribbean" was!