Judy Berlin is a blah story about blah people living their ever so blah lives. Blah, blah, blah. Eric Mendelsohn, a former assistant to Woody Allen and an obvious Woody wannabe, wrote and directed this independent production about Jewish angst in suburbia. Unfortunately, where Allen creates urbane films with fascinating characters, sharp sardonic wit and thought provoking ironies, Mendelsohn has brought us a sub-urbane version where witless and hopeless people go about their boring and mundane lives.<br /><br />The film is an ensemble piece including various character studies in the slice-of-life format. The story has an obviously autobiographical flavor to it. David Gold (Aaron Harnick) is a failed 30 year old Hollywood director who returns to his parents in Babylon to wallow in his regrets, and I suspect he is Mendelsohn's alter ego. Though not specified, Mendelsohn uses enough period cars, props and costumes to peg the period to the mid 1980's which is undoubtedly a recreation of the period when he lived on Long Island. As a result, this film will probably have more appeal to Long Islanders since Mendelsohn, was successful at giving it a genuine Long Island look and feel.<br /><br />The filmmaking was a mixed bag. The sound and music were terrible, even below standards for independent productions on shoestring budgets. The film was shot in black and white with a very artsy look. This was sometimes very effective, when Mendelsohn used high contrast lighting, especially in some of the eclipse scenes. At other times it made a dull story even duller.<br /><br />The acting was the strongest element of the film. Madeline Kahn gives a wonderful performance as Alice Gold, a neglected housewife who is losing her grip on reality. This was Kahn's final performance before her death and was probably one of her very best. Edie Falco was also enchanting as Judy, the only upbeat character in all of Babylon (and she was leaving). Barbara Barrie and Aaron Harnick round out an excellent ensemble cast. It's too bad they didn't have more interesting material to work with.<br /><br />The most that can be said about this film is that it contains positive hints of Mendelsohn's potential as a director. His future as a writer is far more certain. The camerawork was good, but he should be banned from writing screenplays. I rated this film a 4/10, probably a point higher than it's worth because I lived on Long Island and could appreciate the accuracy of the local culture. It might be worth a try for Jewish suburban New York viewers, but for most others, it is likely to be a tiresome ordeal.