"A Caribbean Mystery" is my favorite Miss Marple novel. It takes her to a scenery where you might expect Hercule Poirot but not our favorite English spinster. The book has many intriguing characters…and this TV movie kept many of them. You might miss Senora de Caspearo, who, in the book, gets Miss Marple on the right track with her "evil eye" superstition. But we have all necessary characters who are knitted into this mystery which is mostly about adultery, money…and murder. They dedicated much screen time to the maid, who was little more than a prop for Christie. However, befriending the maid and visiting her village, I actually think this is what Christie's Miss Marple might do. The voodoo stuff was probably inspired by other Christie novels, such as "The Pale Horse" or "Endless Night" but it used up much screen time which I would have rather dedicated to actually seeing Lucky's death. In the book, when they discover her floating corpse, they at first think it is Molly — which leads to the conclusion that the murderer might have been mistaken, too. That's why I give 9 stars out of 10.<br /><br />And last but not least some hints for those who might be confused by user lossowitz' comments: The poison was not administered through pills in a bottle randomly placed into Palgrave's medicine cabinet but in another way which is not disclosed in the movie. Tim Kendall placed regular blood pressure pills there afterwards, taking advantage of the fact that many people in the hotel believed Palgrave had a heart condition. When Victoria started to tell people about the pill bottle that had not been in the cabinet before, Tim just played cool. He was still safe. Even if the police found out that Palgrave did not die of natural causes, he could have gotten away with it. But Victoria simply knew too much. She knew that the bottle belonged to Greg Dyson and that the person who placed it into Palgraves cabinet must have been either him or somebody who had access to his suite — the hotel manager, for example. Victoria confronts Dyson, who does not react to her threats because he simply didn't do it. Victoria did not enlist Miss Marple's help because she did not want the murderer brought to justice, she wanted money. She probably blackmailed Tim off-screen when he was "returning the knife". And if you watch the movie carefully, it becomes obvious that Palgrave is not just dug out because of a superfluous pill bottle but on behalf of the doctor who is Miss Marple's ally.