I had the opportunity to watch this movie by means of a VHS that I have gotten in Spain, and I can really say that I like it a lot, it really entertained very much me. It is a pity that this movie has not been seen in my country, Argentina, and according to my thought, in any other country of Latin America. Precisely alone in Spain. But well, I had the opportunity to see it and I am not sorry. The movie begins when Lawrence (Joseph Fiennes) takes a psycological session where he talk about he, his two friends and a person that they have in common. Martha (Monica Potter), an American young girl, travels to London to make her new life. There, in the same flight, she will know Daniel (Tom Hollander), a young man that will fall in love at first sight of her. Then, Martha will know in a park to Frank (Rufus Sewell), an actor with bad luck in the love, that also will fall in love of her. But Martha doesn't like to both. Alone she will fall in love at first sight with Lawrence, to who she will know accidentally in the airport. Lawrence, a young man serious but a little clumsy, will also fall in love with her. But Martha doesn't know that three guys that she met at same time are friends. How will react when she know the truth??? This movie has a resemblance to the typical American romantic comedies, being in fact an English movie. But I really recommend it for anyone. It is such a simple movie that it will catch you from the beginning until the end. It should not really allow it to happen. The performances of Potter, Fiennes, Hollander and Sewell are brilliant, but I have heard many complaints with that the character of Potter could have been interpret better by Julia Roberts. For my, Potter is quite well in this movie. It is a pity, but this movie should really have been watched here in Argentina and Latin America of Spanish Language. My opinion: A great movie, Really if you have the opportunity to see it, it doesn't waste it, will see it. Amusing, pleasant, funny, a great romantic comedy. Don't get lost it.