-A mysterious dark figure with a cape makes some mafia heads swim with the fishes and of course Batman gets the blame for it. Meanwhile the love of Batman's alter ego comes back in his life and the two rekindle their broken romance so the dark knight has to balance his love life and also find out who's responsible for all the murders and clear his name, because when you walk around in a cape and mask you need all the good PR that you can get.<br /><br />-This being an animated tale I was expecting a kid level style of story here but was very surprised to find how mature the movie is. The tone, the action, the sensual stuff is all not exactly kid friendly which is why the movie works. They didn't waste their time having the cheesy annoying one liner that superheroes often have but just gave all the characters great and memorable lines. The story structure isn't exactly one sided either as we go through a list of events that slowly reveal the great mystery of everything that's going on. This is a very intelligent movie that stirs pretty close to Miller's comics than anything of the past. The right thing for WB to have done was to have these amazingly talented people work on the live action version of the Batman movies after Burton left but instead they got Schumacher and we all know what happened after that. <br /><br />-Kevin Conroy has the absolute coolest voice in the entire world and makes Batman such an unbelievable badass. Whoever discovered him should be given a medal and have his birthday made into a national holiday. His Bruce Wayne voice isn't that great though, but hey he's an awesome Batman and that's all anyone really cares about. Luke Skywalker voices the Joker and I still stand by the claim that he should have been cast as the joker in the next Batman movie. his voice work on the joker to me is the definitive one and just works perfectly.<br /><br />-Breathing new life into Elfman's iconic Batman theme is Shirley Walker who just does an amazing job with the music here. I really love the choir music she plays at the end when Batman is on top of the roof and springs into action after seeing the bat signal. It's so good it gives one goosebumps. The other highlight in the score is the opening music in which Walker just unleashes some operatic choral pieces to massage our ears. The best part of that music is around the 12 second mark she plays this wondering choir and brass right before the operatic choir kicks in. I just can't express how much I love that piece. Without Walker the movie would still have been good but not great so I hope that more people give this amazing woman the respect that she deserves. <br /><br />-It joins "Batman Begins", "Batman Returns" and "Subzero" as the best Batman movies to date with music so good it'll make you feel like proposing to Shirley Walker.