This film has caught me off guard a few times. At first I thought Samir Horn(Don Cheadle) was trying to infiltrate the terrorist organization who are suicide bombers that believes in something like the Qur'an by earning there trust, but later it seemed that he was actually loyal to the terrorist organization or even a double agent. And thought it would show the film in the terrorist point of view from the main character, which probably wouldn't have sit right with most Americans. But later it is revealed that he does work for a organization that is trying to take down the terrorist group leader Nathir and get a hold of the terrorist plans. Even while playing this guessing game, I didn't feel cheated because it was well crafted and gave some clues. I found the whole premise of Samir going to prison in order to befriend Omar who is a member of the terrorist organization a bit over the top, but there is way more over the top stuff that happens in these types of genres. I found the joke about how the suicide bombers are on a mission to get laid with 72 virgins pretty funny. Since it is pretty much the truth, but the film shows that not every people that believe in Allah are bad people and even the revealing of Samir's past shows this, who is also a firm believer in Allah. In fact I didn't necessarily hate Samir or Omar, even if Omar is a real terrorist for some reason. Maybe because of his honorable ways while being courageous, although being courageous isn't necessarily a good thing. So basically agent Roy Clayton investigates a dangerous international conspiracy responsible for a prison break in Yemen, a bombing in Nice and a raid in London. And all clues seem to lead back to a former U.S Special Operations officer, Samir horn. But soon contradictory evidence emerges, forcing Clayton to question whether his suspect is a disaffected former military operative or something more complicated, like the movies tagline. I was expecting some flashy fast paced spy movie but it turned out different from what I expected in that, it has some good drama to go with the action in fact the film has more drama than action. The first hour of "Traitor" was simply great, but after the first hour it started to lose it's entertainment value and became a bit tedious. The parts after the first hour wasn't bad, but just wasn't good as the first hour of the film which kept me guessing. After the first hour, things start to get predictable, not that I knew what the ending was going to be or Samir's last plan, but I knew what direction it is going. The stupid character decisions that jeopardize the mission got a bit irritating as well, it just seemed illogical and irrational. It was a decent espionage thriller with few glitches to sum it up.<br /><br />7.4/10