If you're a liberal looking for some anti-American propaganda then be sure to rent this movie. All the reviewers who claim it makes you think and has a message are correct but it only makes you think for about two seconds - then you realize the attempts of moral equivalence between us and the terrorists are totally unconvincing. <br /><br />The movie wants you to "think" about all kinds of unlikely scenarios that are more likely to confuse you than give you insight into the world of terrorism. 1. Samir's background is so odd. He's born in Sudan, watches his father murdered in a car bombing, is raised in Chicago by a full-on Muslim mother, then joins the US Army, then leaves the army and joins the Mujahadeen (terrorist group), then is an moderate Muslim working undercover helping the US government fight terrorism? It just makes you scratch your head. 2. One point made in the movie is that Americans were once terrorists to the British - yeah right! What a profound thought. The colonists were so well known for killing civilians deliberately. 3. Did you also know America is a racist country? "America uses bombs on innocent people, too. They just have darker skin." I have no idea what that means. 4. Because America treats Muslims badly is why they get involved in terrorism. We're the cause. Very original. 5. When Samir makes the FBI ten most wanted list (or whatever it is), the terrorists tell him American put a fatwah on him. So again we're just like the terrorists. 6. The Klan burns crosses and calls it Christianity, so you see all religions have their fringe elements. So don't single out Islam. I don't even know how you could accept this argument. Maybe because there isn't one mainstream church that would speak in support of any Klan activity while no Muslim leader that I've heard has condemned Islamic terrorism.<br /><br />I'm usually good at not renting movies I'm unfamiliar with unless I've read some reviews, but I got this one solely based on the cover and got burned big time. It was only a dollar but out of principle I still feel dirty having supported this movie in any way.