Who ever said that New Yorkers were rude or not funny, I sure as hell didn't. I want to say a few things about this movie I loved it. I absolutely loved this movie, it was one of the best apocalyptic movies since 28 Week Later, and furthermore, it was more of an isolated incident than a major epidemic. I was beautifully done, the acting was beyond superb, very tense and horrorfic and funny. This movie had the look and feel of something much more mesmerizing and sedated than just your typical outbreak story, it had family values, emotional battles, REAL looking people rather than beautiful young teens and some very sad and unexpected moments. This movie would probably be the best Horror Fest movie I have seen. It brought me back to the day when apocalypse movies were abundant and new. Even for a very restricted budget, as the film displays, this film was dynamite.<br /><br />First off, the acting was equivalent to 28 Days and Weeks, the remake of Dawn of the Dead and Land of the Dead. Unlike its predecessors, Mulberry Street is an isolated outbreak strictly in the Manhattan and New York region. This outbreak was not cause by a virus, or at least confirmed that it was virus, or a zombie outbreak or even a gas, it was simply caused by underground sewer rats. When bitten, people turn into "rat people." They become deformed, grow long front teeth and pointy ears and eat other people. What made this movie scary was that they weren't zombies or enraged people but mutations of the human body running around and viciously attack people. They jump out of nowhere, they puke blood, eat other people and violent manner that all of this is happening. It's scary, when you see these people faces and the way they act before they turn into rat people. Something about this particular apocalypse movie was different from Days, Weeks, Dawn of Dead or Land of Dead, it was pretty scary and very well done for a low budgeter. One of the scarier moments was when the building super, who got bit, started crawling up the inside of the walls and ceilings.<br /><br />The characters in this movie were not you typical drunken, sex-craved, beautiful teens, but were you typical lower class, medium income New York tenants. That's what I also loved about this movie was it had real people who acted like real people in such situations and with outstanding performances by Nick Damici, Kim Blair, Ron Brice, Antone Pagan and Lou Torres. Another great element that drives this movie is the emotional feel and the chemistry between those characters. A father, along with his flamboyant friend wait for the arrival of his long seen daughter, and just the respect and love they had for each was powerful. The relationship that one of the older tenants has with a bedridden old man who breaths through an oxygen tank is hysterically powerful and the love between that father and a barmaid, whom he has trouble confronting. All of these aspects and more made this film emotionally driven and powerful. There are points were it's almost sad and a good amount of laughs.<br /><br />Another great and unexpected aspect of this film was the humor. The old guy with the breather is hysterical even the most hectic and horrible situations. There was plenty of humor in this film that lightened the mood including the bar's owner who found a great way to defend himself from the rat people, with none other than a frying pan. Great humor portrayed by one of the more flamboyant tenants who also found a great way for defense involving a lighter and an aerosol can. The humor was abundant and I enjoyed this ingredient.<br /><br />The visual of the film was hand-held, like a camcorder and when the action heightened it got shakier and more intense. Not quite as motion sickness as Bourne Ultimatum was, but the camera did try to stabilize and keep a hand-held style going. A great attempt and it worked. I enjoyed the camera-work the natural lighting inside the dimly lit apartment and the darkened red lights of the outside streets.<br /><br />Overall, this movie had great scares, some very emotional moments, sad moments, hysterical moments and a great horror film that would fit greatly in the apocalypse line up of films. If you haven't seen this, I would strongly recommend it and give it a chance. A lot of people found it stupid but it was very well done, unlike some b-movies were the director doesn't push his actors and actresses to go above and beyond. For this movie, there is no need for Arsenic, just a chance.