Thinking about it, I'm not a very big fan of Michael Crichton. Westworld is a good film, but Coma was disappointing; and this film, Looker, isn't up to much at all. The early scenes and music indicate that the film is going to be another trashy eighties thriller, which is fine by me; but suddenly the film slows down to snail pace, and despite a few nice murder sequences early on; there really isn't much to remember Looker for. For this film, Crichton has took ideas from the worlds of plastic surgery and advertising, and attempted to blend them into a horror/thriller. To say he wasn't successful would be an understatement, as the plot requires a huge stretch of the imagination and the murders that happen early on never get anything in the way of an explanation. The film focuses on an eminent Beverley Hills plastic surgeon named Larry Roberts. After performing slight surgery on a number of almost perfect young women, he is surprised to find them turn up dead. After doing a bit of research, he stumbles on an advertising company called Digital Matrix, who have their own uses for 'perfect' women.<br /><br />Given that this is an early eighties film, you've got to expect some tacky visuals and an even tackier soundtrack; but the film takes these elements and then delivers a story that is far too serious in tone, and it doesn't bode well at all. Furthermore, Crichton's plotting is awful as the film quickly becomes boring when the writer-director starts forgetting to explain things properly. You can't fault him for imagination, as plastic surgery usually leads to an interesting film, and there's no end of social commentary that can be sprung from the world of advertising; but in failing to capitalise on the story's strong elements, Crichton has made what could have been a masterpiece into a dull and boring film. The acting isn't bad, but again; nothing to write home about. Albert Finney is good in the lead role, and he receives welcome feedback from the likes of James Coburn and Susan Dey. The film isn't all bad (just mostly), and there are a few memorable sequences; most notably a young girl falling several stories onto a car roof, and a scene at a dinner table towards the end; but I'm really surprised that this is given praise as an "unsung movie" - it certainly doesn't deserve it!