The Unsaid is slow and predictable, barely even qualifying as a functional thriller as it seems more interested in piquing the interest of bored housewives who think they're experts on psychology because they watch Oprah and Dr Phil on a daily basis. I wouldn't question this movie's earnestness, but good intentions are no substitute for a smart script, something this movie is sorely lacking. Early scenes with therapists not wanting to let their patient out on his 18th birthday seem strange since there's no indication that the kid has been anything other than a model resident of the youth home. But the audience knows there's something wrong with the kid or there wouldn't be a movie, would there? Rather than take the audience for a ride the movie here has to constantly catch up to the viewer, a backwards way of making a thriller, unless you don't actually want to generate any suspense. An early scene where Thomas the patient flips out violently after being touched by an extremely hot, sexually agressive young woman gives away the fact that Thomas was sexually molested as a child, although like a bad poker player who shows his cards but figures nobody was really paying attention anyway the filmmakers seem to think the audience will react with something other than complete indifference or a loud duh when they finally pull the molestation card out about forty minutes later. Maybe if your brother made movie this you could act surprised out of politeness, but if you're not a relative what's the point. Acting is variable: Andy Garcia brings sincerity and dramatic weight to his portrayal, navigating the hokey cutaways to his suicide son during sessions with the current patient. Terri Polo, who I have to admit to liking pretty much just in one movie, Quick, is fine here through she seems to be channelling Laurie Linney. Vincent Kartheiser who was so damned annoying on the last two seasons of Angel isn't much more impressive here. I'm at the point where I hope I'll never see this guy again. And then there's the daughter played by Linda Cardellini. She seems to have some of the worst man-instincts that a girl could possibly have, moving on from a bullying neanderthal with all the charm of a rapist on his night off and on to deeply disturbed Thomas who has already murdered one one of her friends. This girl needs help.<br /><br />I can't imagine why anyone would want to sit through this movie, but if you're a fan of Lifetime Movies, in-your-face earnestness and movies where the upper middle class hero finds love and redemption, then, hey, maybe this is the movie for you. Just don't expect any nicities like suspense.