This is possibly the greatest animated film ever made. That's right, the greatest. Although, more artistically adept Anime fans may detest and although 'The Lion King' is traditionally realized as the quintessential animated film, 'Beauty and the Beast', in the indiscriminate animated realm, may very possibly be one of the most important animated films, Disney, Animated, or otherwise, ranking alongside the likes of 'Snow White', 'Toy Story', and 'Fantasia'. <br /><br />First of all, let's talk about the cinematography. I declare there is not a single shot in this film that does not impress me. Prior to this film's completion, Rescuers Down Under had enjoyed the distinction of being the first full length animated feature in CGI. But, Beauty is the film that perfected it. Even with all of the animated films that have come since the release of Beauty, I am struck by the polished clarity of the animation in that the background and its objects remain completely in focus in proportion to the objects in the forefront, as critics are still astounded today that young Charles Foster Kane playing in the snow is able to remain in focus through a window in proportion to Agnes Moorhead in 'Citizen Kane.' Likewise, look at Belle and the Beast's snowball fight in 'Something There' while the objects converse. Belle and the Beast, from a distance, can be clearly viewed as easily as can the objects. When Maurice runs down the staircase of the cottage before the angry mob, the camera flies down following him, and yet Belle and Monsieur D'Arque remain completely visible. Remarkable shots like these can be found throughout the film, such as the Swooping Ballroom Ceiling Scene, the wolf chase, and the Beast's transformation sequence. <br /><br />It is understandable that Walt Disney gave up on his treatment of 'Beauty,' just as it is understandable that the makers of this film almost gave up on its completion. The story does not scream success (a beautiful girl passively sacrificing her life for her father and falling in love with a cursed beast). And, yet it is a testament to the power of storytelling that this film is as entertaining as it is, for a film without a straightout villain or hero. From the start, we are taken from a haunted castle, paranormal in its scope, to a simple French village bustling with activity, and the film never loses its power. <br /><br />The film's only legitimate weakness is its instrumental score. Following the fantastic score of 'Mermaid' and preceding the wonderful score to 'Aladdin' and the riveting score to 'The Lion King,' the score to 'Beauty' holds few surprises, for the most part. <br /><br />Otherwise, this is a film devoid of weakness and, more importantly, scandal (like most of the other "Renaissance" films). And whatever I could say about the film's wonderful and groundbreaking songs, characters, scenery, and detail has likely already been said. All I can do is recommend this as highly as any great film I have ever seen.