As far as "Rockumentaries" go, "Let It Be" is one of the finest. For Beatles fans, it is a fascinating (if very watered-down) document of the making of the "Let It Be" album. Of course, I'm sure most Beatles fans are well aware of what went on whilst making this album (Lennon's minimal involvement due to his addictions to heroin and Yoko Ono; McCartney's domination, not only in the songwriting department but also in regards to group leadership; Harrison's disenchantment and Ringo's melancholy boredom) so when watching the film you will not see The Beatles at their best. Far from it. In fact, if not for those nasty contractual obligations, likely both the album and film never would have seen the light of day.<br /><br />Yet "Let It Be" is a rewarding viewing experience- if for no other reason but the grand finale: the legendary "Rooftop Concert" (and it was held on the roof of Apple Studios, folks, not Abbey Road!) It is amazing that, as lousy as the Fab Four were playing, both at Twickenham and later at Apple Studios, that they managed to pull off such a kick ass performance on the roof, despite the freezing temperatures. Indeed, particularly on "Get Back", "I've Got A Feeling" and "One After 909", the Beatles rock out just as good as the Stones (arguably the Stones always did rock a bit harder than the Beatles.) Even John Lennon seems to be putting effort into the performance! My personal favourite part of the film, however, is the extended rock and roll medley they perform, along with Billy Preston, in the Apple Studios. Aside from the rooftop, it seems to be the only time throughout the entire project that the Beatles performed with anything close to their hearts being in it. Indeed, they simply let it all hang hang out as they run through "You Really Got A Hold On Me", "Shake Rattle and Roll", "Kansas City", "Miss Ann" and "Lawdy Miss Clawdy".<br /><br />(I do have to give my head a shake at Linda McCartney bringing her daughter Heather to this session, however...a rock and roll recording session is NO PLACE to bring a child, what with the attendant drug taking, swearing and looning about...poor Heather must have been scarred for life!) In short, "Let It Be" is really worth it for the second half of the film. The first half- the Twickenham rehearsals, which drove George Harrison to temporarily leave the band- will only leave you wonder, "Why were they even bothering?" because they sound horrible and as unlike the Beatles as you can get. Having said that, if you're expecting music along the lines of the official "Let It Be" album -i.e. the Spector production- you won't find it here. Anyone who has heard the original "Get Back" album (bootleg) will find the music comparable.<br /><br />And definitely check out the book "Get Back: The Beatles 'Let It Be' Disaster"...you'll never be able to see or hear any of the "Let It Be" material the same way again.