It's impossible for a Beatles fan such as myself to be objective about 'Let It Be,' so this is more remembrance than review. For example, I remember being 14 years old, picking up the newspaper one day and seeing a small headline that read, "Beatles back together!" or something similar. This, I thought, was good news even though I wasn't really aware that they had permanently split. The headline as it turns out was misleading, to say the least. It simply meant that 'Let It Be,' the movie, was finally opening in our town. I didn't see it then; it was several years later, when it was a staple at 'midnight movie' showings (as was 'Magical Mystery Tour'). The average non-Beatles-loving film critic typically describes 'Let It Be' as slow-moving, boring in places, with only one really good scene- the rooftop concert at the end. For someone though who's early life played to an ongoing soundtrack of Beatle songs, 'Let It Be' is a wistful, sad, occasionally funny, open yet closed look at our heroes as they make preparations for their own funeral. The Beatles actually would continue for another year after the film was shot (they had yet to make 'Abbey Road,' for instance), but it is clear that 'Let It Be' catches them at as low a point as they were to reach in many ways. John sings but talks very little; he was into 'non-verbal communication' at the time, which basically meant staring blankly at other people and not answering them. When you consider there were hundreds of hours shot and Lennon was famous for his wit, it is a bit depressing that what we see in these ninety minutes was considered the best footage available of him. George Harrison is somewhat more talkative and not very happy either; he tries to appear reasonable but it's clear that Paul McCartney is like a festering wound to him that won't heal or go away. At times this animosity boils over (though only occasionally in the released version; there are many more examples in the unreleased footage) such as the infamous exchange between Paul and George during a dispute over how George should play a guitar part. "I'll play whatever you want me to play, or I won't play at all if you don't want me to play," Harrison snaps. "Whatever it is that will please you, I'll do it." Ringo provides a comforting presence, his hang-dog, neither here nor there expression almost uplifting given the circumstances. The only one of the four who seems able to muster enthusiasm for the project, or anything else for that matter, is Paul McCartney. He is seen throughout as cajoling, joking, arguing, pestering, and in general urging the others on, suggesting ideas for the film and beyond. Depending on one's point of view and opinion of McCartney, he is either the one Beatle still trying to create magic, or a colossal pain in the ass. It seems clear the other Beatles consider him the latter, at least at this point in time. There are lots of off-key rehearsals in the film, but also a few finished set-pieces, mainly of McCartney songs like 'Two Of Us' and the title track, which is a wonderfully subdued performance by the four. Still, by this point in the movie, one begins to feel that the only way 'Let It Be' can redeem itself is by all four Beatles setting up their amps and drum kit somewhere and playing some good old rock and roll. Which is exactly what they do, on the rooftop of the Apple building. For the last twenty minutes or so, all the bad vibes magically, mysteriously vanish and the Beatles are the Beatles again, charging through 'Get Back,' 'I've Got A Feeling,' 'Don't Let Me Down,' and 'One After 909', before reprising 'Get Back' as London police show up to wag their fingers and tell the Fab Four to turn that noise down. It's a great, funny, energetic scene that has since passed into legend, and rightfully so. And it sees 'Let It Be' ending on just the right note, as our heroes exit the stage for the last time.