Originally a professional dancer, when Cagney went into acting, his original aspiration was the 'legitimate stage,' i.e. Broadway or off-Broadway, but ended up in Hollywood, where the real money was. Eventually he ran afoul of two institutions of the Hollywood studio system - the almost 'indentured servant' status of acting contracts, and type-casting. The first meant doing whatever the studio said, and the second meant that what the studio told him was to play the racketeer personality that had sold "Public Enemy" in film after film. Cagney rebelled, going long periods not making films, and insisting on casting against type. Finally he formed Cagney productions, which produced this film and a handful of others, most of which were box-office thuds.<br /><br />To be fair to the studios on the issue of type-casting, they really understood their audiences of the '30s and '40s. By the mid-'50s, a new generation of mature audiences could approach an actor as something other than face for a type, but there's no doubt that earlier audiences expected their stars to be pretty much true to the characters they most usually played. Cagney was a particular victim of this syndrome. Of all his non-tough-guy films, only "Yankee Doodle Dandy" made a lot of money and earned enduring critical respect.<br /><br />"The Time of Your Life" isn't just a filmed play that Cagney appears in. His character is the whole story. He has a mysterious past, appears to be well-to-do but prefers a shadowy existence in a lower-class dive, has nothing but good-will for the world, with a wry, wizened sense of humor, yet there is a strange underlying sadness or depression in his make-up that is never fully revealed let alone explained. All this is not just the writing at work, but is present in Cagney's powerful, understated performance. In fact, we're so conditioned by actors 'emoting' in dramas or playing stony strongmen in action films, that we have forgotten what 'subtle' really means in an acting style, but here Cagney exhibits it in spades. Unlike the 'method' actors of the same era as this film, who try to 'get inside' their characters as much as possible, Cagney recognizes the need to take the script as a blueprint for the actor's constructing character. This Joseph T. is as much Cagney's creation as it is Saroyan's - really more so. Cagney creates a fully-developed personality that could easily walk off the screen and down the street to the neighborhood bar. And you could walk up to him ad engage a pretty lively conversation.<br /><br />It is true that the film making here is unexceptional - despite a couple remarkable close-ups, it's really a 'filmed play' in the lesser senses of that term. And the supporting actors are rarely as spot-on as Cagney. As for the story itself, well, let's be fair, it's Saroyan, an amusing bit of 'Americana.'<br /><br />But the box-office failure of this film was undeserved, and so is its continuing reputation as something of a failure for Cagney's career. If you approach the film with an open mind, you'll realize that Cagney here leaves us a classic example of what pre-'method' acting really was, and what acting ought to be about. If you set aside expectations and pre-conceptions, you may find yourself utterly fascinated - and captivated - by Cagney's performance here.