Eccentric, brilliant and extremely likable scientist Seth Brundle (Jeff Goldblum) manages to convince a journalist named Veronica Quaife (Geena Davis) working for 'Particle Magazine' to accompany him back to his apartment so he can show her his invention that will, according to him, change the world. Eventually Veronica agrees. Seth shows her his 'Telepods'. Devices that reintegrate objects placed in one pod and reintegrates them in another. Veronica is suitably impressed and takes the story to her ex-boyfriend and editor Stathis Borans (John Getz) who doesn't believe her and says that Seth is trying to con her. Seth contacts Veronica again and asks her to cover the remaining development of the telepods. Veronica sensing a massive story that she will have exclusive rights to, agrees. After some teething troubles Seth feels he is ready to test the pods out on himself. Unfortunately a fly is trapped in Seths pod as he is teleported. The computer which controls the teleportation decides to splice Seth's and the Fly's genes together. Veronica notices drastic changes in Seth's appearance and personality as he undergoes an horrific transformation into the Fly!<br /><br />Co-written and directed by David Cronenberg I thought this was quite simply an excellent horror film. The script by Cronenberg and Charles Edward Pogue is gripping and really works on an emotional level unlike so many horror films, I actually felt sorry for Seth by the end and the rest of the characters are fleshed out very well so that we care for them. The pacing is excellent, starting off at a sedate pace but never becoming boring and then building up to the gory climax. The acting from both Goldblum and Davis is superb, if they have ever turned in a better performance than I have yet to see it. There are actually very few characters in the film, Seth, Veronica and Stathis is about it. The special effects look pretty good. There isn't much blood or gore, a bone sticking out of an arm and a melted hand is about it. But there are lots of disgusting gooey effects as Goldblum changes into a Fly. It's very well made and looks good. I've nothing really bad to say about it. It was an absolute pleasure to spend and hour and a half of my time watching this. Highly recommended, especially for those who value a well written story with good characters. Don't miss it.