The Fly is a great Sci-Fi thriller that brings excitement to the screen that the original did not. Even though, yes, it can be a bit much to watch with all that, eew, vomiting. I think any true Sci-Fi or horror fan would admit that this is a great movie to watch at midnight. I'm not even really sure why I love this movie, I just think you need a good scare every once in a while and the ending is always a shocker.<br /><br />Jeff Goldblum plays Seth Brendel, a scientist and meets Veronica played by then wife Geena Davis, she is a journalist trying to find a break-through story that can make her career. Seth interests her with his telepods, only these aren't just any normal telepods, they can transfer things from place to place. Only it has not been perfected to where it can transfer a living creature and Seth offers Veronica or he calls her Ronnie, to stay with him and film what will happen when he perfects it. There Ronnie and Seth fall for each other and begin an affair while trying to perfect the machines.<br /><br />There is one little past problem of Ronnie's, her ex and boss, Stathis played by John Getz, he wants Ronnie back, but she refuses and continues the project. When she's gone away from Seth, he gets drunk and goes into the telepod not even sure of the results to come, a fly accidentally gets into the machine with him and he telepods successfully! Everything seems fine at first, until a cut he got earlier starts to have tough hair Ronnie notices. When Seth tries to get her into the telepod, she refuses being too scared understandably, he tells her that he'll get another person who'll do it. We notice also that his face is starting too look a little bit more rough, he's only eating sweets, and now has amazing strength. When he scares off another girl as Ronnie warns her "Be afraid, be very afraid", Seth tells Ronnie to leave and never come back.<br /><br />But now Seth has a bigger problem, he's now loosing his body parts and collecting the "Seth Brendel Museum", he is grossly disfigured when he begs Ronnie to come back into his life and help him. He cannot even eat solid foods any more, he has to vomit on it and make it into liquid, Ronnie loves Seth that she continues to see him and get him help. When it seems that Seth is first frightened of what the results will be, he starts to embrace it with his amazing strength and ability to crawl on the walls and wants to become Brendal Fly! It's worth a Nobel prize or two don't you think? When Ronnie begs Stathus for help, she shows him some video of what Seth is capable of, she has a new problem, she's pregnant with SETH'S baby! She wants an abortion, but when Seth secretly finds out, he's hurt that she'd want to kill the child and he decides the only cure for him is if he and she(with the baby inside her) get in the telepods together and form the ultimate family of one person! <br /><br />"The Fly" is a creative and gross but nevertheless awesome movie with great performances and keeps you on the edge of your seat. I don't think you will be disappointed. It's just a fun watch for a midnight with your friends and you want a good scare. The effects are cool and not cheap and the make up, well, eesh! You might want a blanket to put up by your face. :D <br /><br />10/10