There seem to be certain rules about "madcap comedy" in the 1930s. It had to center around the idle rich and newspapers frequently played an important part in the story lines...oh yes, and Walter Connolly had to be the rich millionaire father who is bedeviled by the antics of the people around him, be they his daughters (Claudette Colbert in IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT, Myrna Loy in Broadway BILL and LIBELED LADY, or Olivia de Haviland in the current film, FOUR'S A CROWD. Somehow when Frank Capra used him Connolly was treated with more respect than in the other films. In IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT he was the wise man who saw through the fortune hunting airplane pilot and pushed his daughter into the hands of Clark Gable. But in LIBELED LADY he is a man who is easily impressed by a conniver's claims at being a trout fisherman. In FOUR'S A CROWD he's the nation's richest man, who has a secret passion that is sillier in it's way than trout fishing (which, after all, is exercise).<br /><br />Connolly is John Dillingwell, who is a very private millionaire who does not care about public relations. His daughter is Olivia de Haviland, who is currently being romanced by newspaper owner Patrick Knowles. Knowles' ace reporter is Rosalind Russell, whose boyfriend is Errol Flynn. Flynn runs a public relations firm, and would love a chance to have Connolly as a client. The film follows how Flynn tries to land this account, and uses Knowles' newspaper to ensnare Connolly.<br /><br />In the background of this comedy was an actual transformation. In the 1900s the most hated figure in American business was our richest man, John D. Rockefeller. The business savvy tied to tricks and chicanery used by Rockefeller to build up Standard Oil to controlling 90% of the oil refining in the U.S. was done at the expense of countless rivals driven to bankruptcy. Ida Tarbell's HISTORY OF THE STANDARD OIL COMPANY was one of the great (if not fully trustworthy) muckraking books of the Progressive Era. John D. Rockefeller was fully hated. Then, about 1910, Rockefeller hired publicist Ivy Lee to figure out how to get rid of this bad image. Lee was a genius about advertising. He convinced Rockefeller to get involved with turning a huge portion of his fortune into charity. This eventually led to Rockefeller University, the Rockefeller Foundation, medical charities, work at restoring the colonial town of Williamsburg (and the Cloisters in upper Manhattan). It also led to Lee's interesting suggestion to turn the elderly Rockefeller into a "lovable old codger" by giving dimes away as gifts or tips to strangers. And it worked. By the time Rockefeller died in 1937 (at the age of 97) he had become a well-liked figure to the American public.<br /><br />Flynn uses bad publicity stories to make Connolly so disliked that street children thrown stones at him. He also uses Knowles' newspaper to print anti-Connolly articles (which threatens Knowels' romance with de Haviland. Then at one point he calls Connolly to offer his services. Connolly responds, "I'd be glad to accept your offer...WHEN BANANAS GROW AT THE NORTH POLE!!" Since global warming is not happening in 1938, this portends no business contract. Instead, Flynn uses Knowles to get Flynn an introduction to Da Haviland. And in visiting her, Flynn finds the key to Connolly's heart: he and his servant Melville Cooper have one of the most elaborate toy train sets in America. Flynn challenges Connolly to a contest between his train and Connolly's favorite one. And surreptitiously sabotages Connolly's train's traction ability.<br /><br />As the relationship between Loy, Powell, Tracy, and Harlow in LIBELED LADY got "twisty" (to say the least), in this film a similar growth of jealousy and confusion renders relations between Flynn, Russell, de Haviland, and Knowles equally confusing at the end - especially when all four end up at Justice of the Peace Hugh Herbert's to get married. The result is four voices in disharmony speaking at once, joined by Herbert (for once not saying "WOO - WOO" as he claps his hands) trying to read through the marriage service once. It is not a great comedy, but it is amusing, and most people will like it.