This is a formulaic film that is very reminiscent of many of Clark Gable's films of the era (particularly SAN FRANCISCO) as well as the crime dramas that made Warner Brothers so popular in the 1930s--though this film IS from MGM. If the film had different stars, such as Jimmy Cagney or John Garfield, you would have just assumed it was a Warner project because they made so many similar gangster films--ones where the mobster is glib and carefree but ultimately doomed to pay for his crimes. Now to me, being formulaic isn't a bad thing at all. I love watching these type films and could do so again and again because they are so entertaining. After all, it's hard NOT to enjoy a film starring Clark Gable, William Powell and Myrna Loy--they were dynamite actors and professionals. Sure, they often tended to play the same type of character again and again, but you grew to love them and look forward to this because the films were so consistently good and exciting. Plus, as always, the writing, direction and production values were top-notch for the period. This predictability and consistency make this a very, very good film but also, unfortunately, keep it from getting a really high score because there isn't a whole lot new about the film as well.<br /><br />Gable plays a professional gambler and killer named, what else, "Blackie" (big surprise, huh). His childhood pal, William Powell, is the district attorney who eventually runs for governor. In SAN FRANCISCO this similar type role was played by Spencer Tracy--but the formula remained intact. Myrna Loy is the woman who loves them both. When Blackie kills a man as a favor to Powell (who NEVER would have approved--he was just too decent in the film), Powell is faced with the dilemma of prosecuting him! Sure it's predictable and almost impossible to believe, but this doesn't matter too much due to the film's quality throughout--that is up until the end. The film SHOULD have ended with Gable's final scene but instead has an ending that immediately follows it that just seems tacked on and unsatisfying. The movie should have ended about five minutes sooner.<br /><br />The film is a must see for fans of Hollywood's Golden Age or fans of Gable or fans of gangster films. All others will still probably enjoy it, but might also find the plot elements a bit hard to believe.