I don't watch a lot of newer, more "mainstream" Asian films, personally preferring 70s era pinku material, or some of the newer "extreme" gore films - but I did enjoy BAD GUY on most levels. It's definitely different from some of the hyper-kinetic action films, or the "scary little girl with long black hair" type films that have overflowed the market recently. This film is a drama about love, obsession, and despair. Pretty strong stuff that is pulled off quite well - for the most part...<br /><br />I thug and a college girl have a heated exchange that leads to the guy obsessively following her. When he feels that he can't get to her any other way, he sets her up to be caught stealing, and she has to take a loan from some shady loan sharks to pay back the debt. Unable to do so - she is coerced into prostitution by a group that is run by the thug and his boys. She eventually finds out that he was behind her "situation" and obviously doesn't take to kindly to it - the rest of the film is pretty much a love/hate struggle between the two, as well as with one of the other members of the gang who is in love with the hooker as well...<br /><br />There's quite a bit more going on in BAD GUY than the above summary - but I prefer to keep things kinda short. The transformation of the young woman from innocent college-student to street-whore is sad and believable. The subject-matter is handled seriously and competently and it's easy to relate to her pain and hopelessness. The main issue I had with the film, was the fact that many things went unexplained and seemed that it was left to the audience to assume certain things that I felt could have been expanded on better. I don't know exactly how to explain this - you'll have to watch it and see for yourself. I also felt the ending was a bit anti-climactic, and certain parts of the film felt kind of dull and redundant. Regardless, BAD GUY is still a strong film if you're in the mood for a serious drama, but want something different then the regular U.S. theatrical garbage that's out there...7.5/10