-If one needs more proof why foreign films are superior to American crap then look no further this gem. it's beautiful, magical, funny, sad, and wonderfully romantic <br /><br />-Amelie tells the story of a girl with a highly active imagination. statues come to life, TV's can talk to her and pictures can move around. Her mom dies in a semi-hilarious scene which means she has to spend the rest of her life with her dad. Her dad is a very distant man that seldom shows affection. he's not a bad father by any chance, in fact he loves her daughter more than anything in the world, but he just dosen't know how to express his love for her properly so he becomes a bit distant from him This leads to Amelie having to retreat into her imagination to find people to talk to since her dad won't. she makes up imaginary friends to play with and keeps herself entertained by over imagining what she sees in everyday life<br /><br />-the movie really begins about 20 mins. into the story. She discovers through TV that princess DI has died in a car crash and so shocked by it that she drops a marble in her hand. the marble rolls in the bathroom till it hits a wall. she pushes aside the tiny wall to discover that it's where a little boy hid his toy a long time ago. so she decides to return it to him, and when the boy whose now a man finds it he's so grateful that he begins to cry. this leaves Amelie feeling so happy that she decides to spend the rest of her life doing good deeds to those who deserve it. she helps out a grocer whose been emotionally abused by his manager, helps a blind man cross the street whiles describing everything in sight, and she reunites a weeping widow with her husband through a letter. as things move along she meets a guy that she falls in love with and the entire 4th act of the movie basically shows how the two of them get together <br /><br />-french director Jean-Pierre Jeunet brings a unique visual style to this movie. it's almost as if you're watching the movie through a dream. it also one of the best cinematography ever to be committed on film. the beautiful Audrey Tatou plays the title character and the supporting cast also do an amazing job. this is one of those movies that leave you in a good mood after you watch it. plus it will leave you in stitches from laughing so hard. the "Orgasm Montage" has to be one of the funniest scenes in cinema history and that is one of the many reason why this movie is awesome <br /><br />HIGHLY RECOMMENDED