Jillian Christopher-Smalley -New York<br /><br />Recently I went to the New York City Horror Film Festival, which caught my interest as a contributing writer for a cultural magazine. The only screening worth mentioning was an independent film, Little Erin Merryweather. The festival leans towards the usual horror mold (soaking wet bloody scenes, torn limbs and headless corpses without regard for plot and presented in a way that borders on exhibitionism). After ten minutes, these films quickly lose their flavor. The last film screened at the festival, Little Erin Merryweather, renews the hope that creativity is still flourishing in the independent film world. It is a classy horror/thriller with numerous elements that work so well together. The excellent cinematography and choice of locations alone set this movie apart from the others. The impressive scenery here might well set a new standard and trend for future horror films. Whimsy gothic-like artwork is artfully woven into the fabric of the storyline. The music score, with its haunting leit motif, is impressive in both its professional composition and execution. Perhaps what astounded me most about this film was the naturalness of the actors, most notably Vigdis Anholt and David Morwick. Anholt and Morwick click on screen as a dynamic duo. Anholt, as Erin Merryweather, is a bewitching red riding hood who casts a spell over wolfish college boys. Liz Callahan is another well-trained actor who turns in a great performance as the college professor. Clearly these actors are not the run-of-the mill screaming victims. Unlike the usual horror hackers with high body counts and no character development, the characters and storyline in Little Erin Merryweather are well developed and fit uniquely into a script that really works. Also, a female serial killer assuming the role of a fairy tale character is not exactly the typical flat formula used in the horror films I have seen. This a creative film that gives the horror genre some spice. It is in a class of its own. Keep your eye out for this one!