I saw this film at the Woods Hole Film Festival in Falmouth, Massachusetts on Cape Cod. If I remember correctly, I believe this movie walked away with the award for best picture, but what I remember most was that this film had some of the best original artwork I have seen. I am truly not exaggerating when I say that. The movie is about a female serial killer who is an artist and is acting out the murders that she paints and illustrates in this book she is composing. (very neat idea by the way... and very creative and original way to tell a story) I thought the story line for this movie was very creative, especially for this genre. So the movie is a framework for the book and I don't know if the book is available to buy. It is absolutely amazing and I would love to get a copy. As a rule, I am not fond of this genre (the horror genre). I was definitely the oldest member of the audience, sitting in a theater amongst rowdy young people. This people definitely speaks more to the younger generation. Nevertheless, besides the outstanding artwork, there are some spectacular snow covered locations worth seeing. There is also a group of talented young actors. Vigdis Anholt, who I discovered is from Norway (I though I detected an accent) as well as David Morwick (a former model for Talbot's) and Brandon Johnson (who got his start on a soap opera) are all great. But I have to say that the performance I was most impressed with was Liz Callahan who plays the teacher. It's nice to see a strong female who doesn't die at the end of one of these films (oops...sorry to give away the ending for those who haven't seen it). I don't like to even sit through this type of movie, but if I happen to catch it on t.v. in the future, I'll watch it with the lights on and one eye open to see that amazing artwork again. The only thing I would say is that this film is a little too smart and sophisticated for its genre. If I were the filmmakers, I would not market this film as a horror, but rather a thriller. If you're a hard-core horror buff, this movie will go over your head. I think that a lot of these die hard horror fans want more in the way of blood, very little story and women that are undressed or have little or no character development. But, I shouldn't be going on too much because the film world is something I know very little about considering I'm a third grade teacher... So, if the filmmakers read this- guys don't be offended. You did a superb job. This teacher gives it an A -Mary-Rita from Salem, NH