I had to see this movie due to my job. Wish I hadn't, because the last time I had such fun time like this one, it's when I went through two endoscopias in a row (it's when a doctor puts in you a camera by the throat to check your stomach from the inside). This movie is like any sketch extracted from Lente loco or any other TV show made by latin people in the spanish spoken networks in the USA -if you've ever had the misfortune of tuning in any, then you'll know what I mean-, but, an hour and plus long. And if you can't make those gags work in a five minutes range, then guess what happens when you stretch them way beyond their boundaries.<br /><br />That is exactly the aesthetics in Chasing Papi; this total piece of crap features latin "stars" that are everything but actors, and anything but funny. It´s just a bad cast of cute people speaking in english -or trying to- just because they are supposed to live in Miami, Chicago, New York and Los Angeles. I don't know why they talk to each other in a foreign language when ALL of them speak spanish. I was embarrassed by hearing this ridiculous attempt of communicate in english; really. And this is primarily what gets me confused: is it for the latin community living in the US? I don´t think so, since almost every person of it speaks none other language but spanish (and I know it, because I've lived in California). Is it for the people from the United States? I guess not either, mainly because the actors (?) may be barely known between them. Besides watching voluptuous women wearing almost nothing -and that's a more than reasonable excuse for a lot of guys to watch anything; but don't count me in-, this is a TOTAL waste of time. I'd rather follow an ant´s trail straight to their home instead of watching this crap again or any similar attempt to kill the most insignificant sense of film appreciation in a moviegoer.<br /><br />I know that anybody shouldn't expect a two thumbs up experience due to the people involved, but it's just that I felt real bad for my time being stolen this way that I felt the urge to write this as a kind of warning, so, don't go see it nor even get close to it unless you're a fan of the kind of trash made in the TV show mentioned above, or any other garbage from networks like Telemundo or Univision.