Though he tries to hide behind the pseudonym F.C. Perl, director R.L. Frost can't disguise his style in the nasty "A Climax of Blue Power." This adult film follows a security guard (Jason Carns) who's got some serious hang-ups about women. In his free time he masquerades as a cop--even going as far as converting his Ford LTD into a black & white police car--and "busts" prostitutes, offering to let them go in return for sexual favors and/or fulfilling his sadistic whims (the first victim is ordered to "crawl around in the mud like a dog!"). While bumming around the beach one day, Carns hears gunshots at a nearby house. Peeking through the windows, he witnesses a woman (Angela Carnon) murder her husband. Carnon quickly becomes the focal point of Carns' obsessions. Even a three-way in a massage parlor or watching a porno movie at home can't get her out of his mind. When he learns the murder is written off as a suicide, Carns decides the murderess shouldn't get off that easy.<br /><br />"A Climax of Blue Power" is hostile and gritty, and without a trace of political correctness. It also plays like a real movie, with a plot, characters and believable acting. There's even a car chase. Carns is effective in his role, his physical attractiveness (he sort of looks like a young Kurt Russell) never overshadowing his creepiness. Carnon, who's made numerous softcore movies ("Drop-Out Wife," "Booby Trap"), is another standout. (Incidentally, Carnon's scenes in this movie all appear to be softcore; an obvious stand-in was used for the hardcore close-ups). Also appearing are Frost's frequent producing partner Wes Bishop, as a detective, and Uschi Digard in a non-sexual and, surprisingly, fully-clothed cameo.<br /><br />Director Frost made some of the most stylish roughies of the 1960s ("The Pick-Up," "The Defilers," "Hot Spur"). "A Climax of Blue Power" essentially uses Frost's roughie template and repackages it in a hard-X format. Though the movie has a few shaky production and story issues at its beginning (like why does a hooker keep flagging down johns in front of a police car and an unconvincing day-for-night scene), this is a must for fans of Frost's work, as well as aficionados of rough sex.