Four strippers are sent by their travel agent to a supposed paradise which turns out to be an empty, but gorgeous location with a hotel without guests and a creepy manager, Carlos(Antonio Mayans;a frequent Franco collaborator)who keeps a naked woman, Olivia(Eva León) chained in a room, tormenting her by keeping food just out of reach. He also has a loony gardener, Marleno(Albino Graziani)who likes to pester the girls, when he's not whistling or singing to his beautiful flowers outside the hotel. But, outside the hotel, the girls notice that there are no tourists. Just the oddball Carlos and his nutty gardener. But, the girls, one by one, will soon discover who awaits them not too far from the hotel, restless spirits of accursed Inquisition dressed in monk robes, chanting from within their abbey sacrificing each female soul to Lucifer, condemned to worship him thanks to the power of a witch, Irina burnt at the stake who cast a spell on them. One of the strippers, Candy(Lina Romay, who barely ever wears clothes, I don't think I've ever seen a more uninhibited woman in all my life)could very well be the reincarnated spirit of Irina and Carlos is actually a *limbotic* spirit, real and yet unreal. When he's within the abbey walls, he's seen in a rotted form(..his face is covered in a type of waxy substance)underneath his robe, watching as his brethren takes turns sexually molesting each female victim, serving their Prince of Darkness before plunging a dagger in them. Carlos believes that if Candy is in fact Irina, her kiss to him can set their souls free, no longer to serve their dark lord.<br /><br />Well, that's what I got out this Franco flick. When he sets up the first scene as we see these "undead" monks chanting a rather harmonic tune, the wind ever present, you kind of get an idea that something within the atmosphere of this place in unstable. He is able to display this by showing the wind as it generates a type of rage, also arranging the furious sound of wind on the soundtrack. It only happens when the girls make the unfortunate mistake of nearing and entering the abbey. This is a place of unrest and, I felt, not of our realm. I was a bit miffed with the sub-plot regarding Olivia, but I think she's kept by Carlos as a reminder of what causes such discomfort, the desires of the flesh, and a longing for lustful embrace. Maybe, that's why he mistreats her. She's an outward expression of what torments him from the inside.I love the location and the desolation. Something about the absence of people creates a sense of foreboding. Where is everybody? Such a beautiful place remains so unoccupied. What gives? That worked well for me, as did the way Jess creates the atmosphere around the abbey. Many might find some of the Inquisition monks very similar to the Blind Dead Templars.There's lots of naked flesh, drooping breasts which hardly ever remain covered, and lesbian activity(Lina is a wild cat in this one, even proclaiming how she likes "tree-hugging", at one time spitting out a hair caught in her teeth).If you do not like Jess' camera work, or the way his female characters walk around naked desiring sex, stay far away.