"La Mansión De Los Muertos Vivientes" aka. "Mansion of the Living Dead" of 1985 is supposed to be cult director Jess Franco's take on Amando De Ossorio's GREAT 'Blind Dead' franchise (IMDb even lists it as a Remake of the original "La Noche Del Terror Ciego" aka. "Tomb of the Blind Dead" of 1970). However, this has about nada to do with De Ossorio's wonderful cycle which ranges among the most popular and influential Eurohorror Cult productions from the 70s. I am great fan of Jess Franco (especially of his earlier works), and had "Mansion of the Living Dead" been directed by someone else, it might not have its certain undeniable charm - then again, it is not really imaginable for anyone else to come up with an outrageously nonsensical production such as this one.<br /><br />Four young women from Germany (one of them played by Franco's real-life wife, Lina Romay) come to a Spanish beach club for vacation. In typical Franco-manner they are all nymphomaniacs with strong exhibitionist and lesbian tendencies. After one hour of walking around naked and making out with each other, one of them disappears when going out to take photos... People who are not in favor of Jess Franco's cinema will probably think of this as the worst film ever made; however, the film's incredible weirdness and lack of any logic whatsoever are also the elements that make it fun (in addition to its primary quality, the constant sleaze and female nudity).<br /><br />Basically, this film is about 90 per cent sleaze and soft porn, and 10 per cent weird and really, REALLY nonsensical Horror. Amando De Ossorio's original Blind Templars were among the creepiest creatures ever in Horror cinema; the villains in this sleazefest are a bunch of ridiculously looking monks, some of which have (extremely ridiculous) skull-faces. The original blind dead also drank their victims' blood in order to gain eternal life, whereas these guys are fans of gang-rape instead. In typical Franco-fashion, all women are naked for about 95 per cent of the screen time (one is for all her screen time, actually), which is especially welcome from the dark-skinned Elisa Vela (who goes by the name Jasmina Bell here) and Lina Romay (who has gotten a little chubbier). In typical Franco-fashion they are all bisexual nymphomaniacs who thrive for every man, and have non-stop sex with each other when there's no man available. Also in typical Franco-fashion, the film includes some seriously demented perversions. A guy keeps his wife on a leash in a room, and always brings her food, which he positions out of her reach in order to torture her, for example - and she actually gets sexually aroused by this treatment! Which director except for the weird mind of Jess Franco would come up with demented stuff like that? As in all Franco films, the cinematography is pretty well done.<br /><br />Overall, the film is very amusing in the beginning, mainly due to the lack of any logic, and the fact that Jess Franco obviously doesn't give a crap about it. However, it gets pretty tiresome towards the end, and the conclusion is about the most senseless thing I've ever seen. This film may be enjoyed by my fellow Franco fans, and it is recommendable to anyone who wants to see 96 minutes of boobs and weirdness disguised as Horror. If you want to watch a GOOD film by Jess Franco, stick to older productions such as "The Awful Dr. Orloff", "The Diabolical Dr. Z" or "Venus in Furs". This film may well be described as utter crap; however, I cannot deny I somehow enjoyed it. No doubt Amando De Ossorio's Blind Templars would be ashamed for their sleazy descendants.