Many people did not question what they were told by the Media and the Government, regarding the terrible events on September 11th 2001 (911). The official story was just accepted with out question in all the chaos and terrible loss of life that day. Now, clearer heads have prevailed, and further investigation by noted and highly trained professionals, scientists, and academics, and many concerned people, has raised serious questions as too what we were told, as to what really happened that fateful day on September 11th 2001. It is now very evident, from research, investigation, and peer review, that the official story is not only wrong; but that nefarious actions by Israel and the United States Government were at the center of the September 11th 2001 events, which had been planned for months in advance. Now a group of people, called the Truth Seekers, have been systematically and diligently looking into the facts of September 11th 2001, and as a result, have, and are, exposing large numbers of false information about this event, and exposing the real Truth behind September 11th 2001. What the real Truth is, has yet been fully exposed or agreed on; but it is now very clear that what America and the World was told about the events of September 11th 2001 are not only not True at all, but has a sinister twist to it that involves secret involvement of Israel and the United States Government in a preplanned plot to stage this event for nefarious purposes and for political manipulation of the American People, and the World. This documentary is hard hitting, and raises serious concerns and questions as to the Truth of the events of September 11th 2001. Every American should see this documentary, as should Citizens Globally. America and the World were deceived in one of the most nefarious events in modern history. Learn the Real Truth behind this most diabolical and evil event of modern human history. Now learn the TRUTH, and see this great Documentary. You will be very glad you did! More information about this information and the Truth Seekers can be found at: http://www.loosechange911.com -and- http://www.infowars.com Think, Question, and Seek Truth! God Bless America!