The point here is not about if the this film proved anything or if there really is a conspiracy. I think what the filmmakers were trying to say is that why all the concealed evidence? If the gov't has got nothing to hide then why can't we see all the evidence that we the American public has a right to. So, I have to say it is very respectable of them to dedicate this film in memory of those perished in 9-11 because, the victims out of everyone has the right to know what really happened and to be honest the gov't haven't shown us everything.<br /><br />I can't say everything in this film made sense but at least, some of it is very convincing. This film has raised a lot of good questions. The American public has a right to know every answer to every question that this film has raised. Like why the small explosions in the Twin Towers after the planes have hit? I'd say that is pretty suspicious. Also, where are the bodies of the passengers for the other two planes? Why can't we hear the evidence from the black boxes on the planes? I'm not saying there is any conspiracy here but I think we have a right to know.<br /><br />For those of you who's seen Farenhite 911. I'd say these two films could be linked together. If you knew what the Bush family has invested in the middle east then you know that is a big enough motivation for them to kill anyone in this world. That's why the old Bush went to war in the middle east and then the young Bush went to war in the middle east. No other president in US history has gone to war in the middle east. Why? Use your brains people. Where does all of Bush's money come from? Not from US tax payers thats for sure. Their money comes from the Saudi Royal Family who just happens to be good friends with Bin Laden. Where does Dick Cheaney's money come from? His money comes from his company that invests in communications of the troops in the middle east and home. Every time there's a war his stocks go up. People kill for money. It's plain and simple. We see it everyday in the news around us. For those of you that don't believe someone in our gov't with power won't kill for money. Then I'd say you need get out of your fairytale world and wake up. If you can make a billion dollars and you need to kill 3000 people in order to do it and you had the power to cover it up and no one would ever find out it's you until your dead would you do it? I'd say a lot of people would. Those of you that say you wouldn't because you never had that kind of power. Power is corruption. Wake up people.<br /><br />Last but not least for those of you who is dissing this film I bet you don't know anyone that has died because of 9-11 and you don't have a son fighting in Iraq. Because if you do you wouldn't be so quick to dismiss this film. You would use your mind and heart and question if all this is worth my loved ones to die for. Is this all worth something? Just ask yourself that question.