Decoys was a very weird film, in fact my first impression, before I read the back, was that it had something to do with monsters or aliens roaming a snow covered forest, kind of like a Windego themed movie, but I was wrong. This movie was okay, but it wasn't my favorite. The movie is essentially about these things that disguise themselves up to look like beautiful young college girls, who happen to have a taste for humans. This film is essentially a blend of American Pie and Alien, though there were some great camera-work for the attack scenes and there were some good performances, but this movie seemed as thought it was just another teen horror flick. There are also some pretty good comedic lines and situations too, however, for my taste it just wasn't there and it did not hit me right. Perhaps, I've drawn away from this brand of horror.<br /><br />The cast is virtually unknown, however, among the bunch there are notably okay performances by Krista Morin, Marc Trottier and Ennis Esmer. I think that I can safely say that the girls who played the aliens did some of the best performances. Case in point, Stefanie von Pfetten, Kim Poirier, Meghan Ory and Corey Sevier who both did pretty great acting in this movie. However, some of the "diabolical" acting was a bit silly and not the great. However, some of the performances by the male heroes seemed a bit too determined into finding the truth than any teen that I have run into. They seem a bit scripted and movie-ish for my taste. Also, despite it being a necessity to the film, there was a bit too much sex and nudity for my taste.<br /><br />The scares in this film were okay, I enjoyed the chest bursts and the spider-things, but they weren't scary, rather they were just plain weird and unexpected. They tried to be scary by having some "jump out" scares and "creature" scares, but they were unsuccessful. Though, the aftermath of which the victims' look like is disturbing in it's own sense. I can't remember that much from this movie so I regret that I cannot comment that much about the scares.<br /><br />Overall, this movie had some great intentions and some okay scares but they overshot it by making it seem too scripted and adding unnecessary sex and nudity. The performances were okay but a bit too over the top and sometimes dramatic. I guess this movie is okay as a B-movie, but certainly not one that you would want to rush out and see or spend money to buy. I think that this movie would have a greater following mostly due to the fact that it is a cult classic, but not for my tastes. This movie would appeal to you if you do like B-movies and indie films as well as cult films, but if you are looking for something that will hit you hard or really scare you, keep on looking. I wasn't a huge fan of this film.