Courage, revenge, love, combat, victory, honor, defense, reconciliation...those ideals deeply hidden within the human spirit have long been considered precious targets of human life. Not only poetry and literature but also epic movies attempted to promote the virtues and depict humanity in the spirit of reason and heart. The question was: historical time. In this respect, there was, perhaps, no better period in history than the 1,000 year-long Middle Ages, both controversial and spiritual with a flair for darkness and exceptional enlightenment. Among many other epic movies that depict the period is IVANHOE based on Sir Walter Scott's novel being at the same time a remake of the 1952 classic Hollywood production.<br /><br />Keeping in mind that remakes usually face high expectations in case of their classic "predecessors", I watched this movie without much referring to the older version and that is how I intend to comment on it underneath.<br /><br />Let me say at the beginning that IVANHOE by Douglas Camfield is a very good movie at multiple levels. It makes a perfect use of historical material supplying us with a clear and pretty accurate insight into Medieval England, and, more specifically, its late 12th century situation with savage conflicts, difficult political situation, Anglo-Saxons vs Normans relations, prejudice as well as those visual aspects like costumes, feasts and baths. In this respect, the movie may constitute for a viewer a wonderful journey into those distant times and bring out some pearls out of prefabricated negative opinions about the Middle Ages. There was, indeed, something good about the period, too. The aspect of interest highlighted in this case appears to be Ashbey sequence where the savage combines with the glamorous or the deep psychology and morals of characters expressed in many scenes throughout. Here, it seems necessary to mention Lady Rowena (Lysette Anthony) and Rebecca (Olivia Hussey), two women of different backgrounds who face similar emotions.<br /><br />Besides, IVANHOE can boast very good cinematography, wonderful shots, stunning locations. Consider, for instance, the subtle images at the scene when Ivanhoe visits Lady Rowena at her castle with Wamba (George Innes). The extraordinary locations and interesting shots make the film not only a historical work but also a rousing adventure. Moreover, to these artistic features, I would add a very accurate sense of humor (consider the scene of a bath or Wamba's Pax Vobiscum) and subtle musical score. The tunes are filled with the spirit of chivalry and the spirit of romance which, alone, can resemble the very essence of the story. But, the core of art is acting.<br /><br />The movie known for a number of famous and talented cast could be falsely assessed as a vehicle. Yet, it does not have to be a "promotion" for anybody. To the contrary, it is a film that proves the importance of talent first and foremost. All the cast take great pains to give something truly great of themselves. Anthony Andrews is a perfect Ivanhoe as described by Sir Scott and as imagined by modern viewers. He clearly portrays a character of courage, nobility and gentleness. Sam Neill and John Rhys Davies appear to give powerful performances as "Norman dogs" people not so much afraid for the good but rather absorbed by savage brutality. James Mason does a fine job as calm, good Jew, Isaac of York, whose destiny appears to have brought more wounds than cure. The female roles are brilliant. Here, however, I would not praise that much Lysette Anthony: I admit she is beautiful, she gives a memorable performance. Yet, the absolute top notch is Olivia Hussey, the famous heroine at Zeffirelli's appears here as a gentle, subtle, beautiful Jewess whose "individually formed spirituality" conquers "externally organized morality" of many "pious men of God." She gives a brilliant performance as a flower of peace fearfully surrounded by the thorn of war and the light of tolerance surrounded by the darkness of prejudice. Absolutely great role! Consider, among many, the scenes depicting the trial.<br /><br />In the end, if you see this IVANHOE, do not compare it with the older version. These are two different films focusing on different aspects. If someone insists on me to say which one is better, I'd rather say both are good films. Thorpe's IVANHOE is a typical epic of the classic Hollywood era while Camfield's IVANHOE stands out on its own as a movie filled with remarkable psychology and adventure. Great tribute to the real Courage and the Chivalrous Spirit!