Note: I've only seen the MST version of this film and the film's original trailer (which had a few extra scenes that were cut for time). Oh yea, and THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS! READ AT YOUR OWN RISK!<br /><br />There we go. Now, to whine and moan about this movie. It hurts a lot. The actors are untalented and unappealing, the music was synthesized with someones BUTT and the plot is full of holes. Argh!<br /><br />Where shall we begin? Nick Miller, alias Butt Chin (he could use some Chinderwear, pronto!) invents a time machine in a plane. Okay, cliched already, but maybe it could still manage, right? WRONG. See, he calls the newspaper and a corporation called GenCorp and gets them to look at it. Turns out that Butt Chin's old girlfriend, Lisa, alias Lady in Plaid (yowza, get her a new wardrobe!) works at the paper and so their romance heats up again. Yes, thrill at the sizzling hot grocery store scene! Of course, since this movie was made during the early 90's, GenCorp is an Evil Corporation and they've managed to destroy the future. The set for the evil J.K. Robertson's office is a laugh-it looks like it's in the skyway of a mall or the center of a library. And good old J.K. has a really, really bad New England accent. Thus, you can thrill at an insanely stupid chase scene. Thrill as Butt Chin, who crashes a car while escaping a GenCorp truck (Note: Where did J.K. manage to get such an army, anyway?), hops on a bike...and the people in the truck GET OUT OF THE TRUCK and chase him on bikes too, despite the fact it would be FASTER if they just kept driving. No, nobody thinks in this film. And much is to be made of the sorry attempt to show the Revolutionary War. If the movie is so concerned with tangents, than wouldn't they have created one when J.K. started blowing away tons of American minutemen? What if they killed someone who turned out to play a key role to the American victory? Yes, J.K. is indeed armed and dangerous. Apparently, ISO 9001 certification is a license to kill. And finally, we have the biggest annoyance of all...why did Butt Chin still pull that fast one on J.K. and get poor Matt fired when all he had to do was time-travel back to before he gave the demo and tell his past self to never give it? It would have saved himself some problems.<br /><br />Of course, this film can't stand enough to be painfully bad when it;'s being dramatic. It also tries to be "comedic", with such witty commentary as "What would MacGuyver do?" and "I never should have joined the Physics Club in high school." Ho ho. The "funniest" joke is, of course, involving the "sky diving grandmas."<br /><br />This movie hurt me. I want to go back in time and stop it from being made so I could undo the hurt it caused. Oh yea, and I also want to burn Lady in Plaid's wardrobe.